​So now we're just going to talk a little bit about web scraping. ​I want you to come and visit this again later in the book. ​But the basic idea is just now we have this protocol that we can send ​GET requests and get data back. ​That's how browsers talk to servers. ​What scraping really is, is when we write a Python program that fakes or ​pretends to be a browser. ​It retrieves the web pages, it looks at them, and maybe extracts some information, ​maybe for searching or for more links and then goes and ​perhaps gets some more pages. ​And we call this either spidering the web because it kind of works its way out like ​a spider's web. 
​Or we call it crawling the web, so it's kind of crawling and crawling ​and crawling from one place to another, and eventually it's going to crawl ​one link at a time, and it finds all or nearly all the web. ​Now, why might you scrape? ​Well, you might scrape data that you can't get any other way. ​Now, you've got to be careful, because it might not be legal to do this. ​You want to scrape the inventory of a competitor. ​Maybe you're not supposed to do that or maybe you posted a bunch ​of things to a blog and you lost the blog is about to get shut down. ​I actually used scraping recently for ​a Wiki that I typed a bunch of stuff into someone else's Wiki. 
​And they were going to shut the Wiki down and I'm like, I want my pages back. ​And I could have pulled them all out by hand, but I just wrote a scraper. ​And I scraped all my pages back. ​You might write something that runs every night to ​check to see if something changed. ​Or you might build yourself a simple equivalent of a search engine. ​Now, there's lots of controversy about it. ​People who build web sites often copyright their material and say you can't have it. 
​You can't just like make a online store by ​borrowing Amazon's inventory from their pages. ​They will be very unhappy about that and they'll catch you. ​They have terms of service and they can block your network. ​They can block your computer. ​They can shut your account off. ​And so be very careful about the things that you spider. ​Spider things like Wikipedia or ​dr-chuck.com, somewhere that really doesn't care if you look at their stuff and ​actually is happy to have their stuff looked at. 
​So the biggest problem in spidering is the parsing of the HTML that comes back. ​And like I said before HTML is a nasty little representation and ​it turns out that when your browser retrieves HTML it goes through ​a whole bunch of things that effectively forgives syntax errors in HTML. ​Because they figured ah, we'll just show it. ​Why tell people about each syntax error? ​So it turns out that there is ​lots of HTML on the web that has syntax errors in it but you don't even notice it. ​And so you could do regular expressions, you could do finds, you could do splits, ​you could do all kinds of things and you would find quickly it'll work for ​the first two pages but the third through the thousandth page blows up because. ​I didn't realize that's what the href, ​I didn't realize you could put a newline there. 
​Who would have put a newline there, why would they do that, and then you fix that. ​And you realize after you try to fix this and you try to parse all the links that ​there is just so many variations and someone has already done that. ​And it's a library called BeautifulSoup from a place called crummy.com ​I think the naming of this is all sort of this tongue in cheek of what ​a mess HTML is. ​And so instead of calling it HTML super parser, they just call it something silly ​because it's kind of a silly problem because HTML on the web is just so bad. ​And so it's kind of fun. ​But once you use this ​you've taken the easy way out. ​Now, the first thing that you've got to do is you've got to install BeautifulSoup and ​there's two ways to do it. 
​I put in the code, the code folders, and all the zip files. ​So you can either go and follow the instructions at their site and ​install it, and that installs it for all Python programs. ​That's fine if you can figure that out but sometimes you're running on ​a campus computer and you can't actually reinstall software on that, maybe you're ​bringing your python programs on a USB stick or on a shared drive or something. ​And so you actually kind of have to locally install it and so if you make this ​file, you actually can download this file bs4.zip and then unzip it. ​And so if you put it in a folder with the URL links, this one. ​.py ​And there's a folder bs4 and then this is actually a folder and ​then all the stuff underneath it. ​Then in that one folder, BeautifulSoup will work, okay? ​So you can either have it installed for all Pythons or ​you can put it in any folder that you're going to use BeautifulSoup ​you make this subfolder called bs4. 
​And it's got some .py files in it and etc, etc. ​So you unzip. ​You download this file and unzip it in to that same folder. ​And then, this import will work. ​Now until you get BeautifulSoup properly installed, ​this import is going to blow up. ​And so you just keep running it until the import works. ​And then the import works and you can focus on the rest of the program. 
​So, you got to install it one way or the other. ​Look at the instructions. ​I'll probably have a little screen capture or ​something that shows you how I make this work. ​Okay, so assuming that you can import BeautifulSoup, ​we're going to read some data from the net. ​And we're going to import the BeautifulSoup library. ​We're going to ask for a URL. ​Then we are going to open it, and then do a .read, okay? We're going to do a .read. 
​Remember what .read is? ​That says read it all. ​It's not a for loop that reads it. ​It reads the whole blob with newlines at the end, and ​it all comes in to one big string. ​And then we're going to tell BeautifulSoup to parse it. ​Okay, now BeautifulSoup is smart enough to convert all this stuff so ​it just takes the whole file and uses this HTML parser. ​There's some other options that you could have here, ​but that's the one that I recommend in this case. 
​And then you get back an object. ​And what happens is, in this soup variable, ​it's somehow taken all the nasty bits that come from the web page ​and cleaned them up, and made a little pretty tree of things. ​You don't have to worry about the internal structure, it is a soup object. ​I named the variable soup just because it's cute to ​name it soup. That could be x for all we care. ​And you can ask soup some questions at that point. ​So it takes the nasty HTML and cleans it up. 
​That's what this parsing is doing. ​It's like, that's the ad hoc heuristic challenging difficult part of it. ​Thank you BeautifulSoup for writing such a wonderful library. ​And then we can ask questions of it and this first question that we can ask ​and BeautifulSoup is a little tricky to use and so you'll end up reading some ​documentation if you want to build really sophisticated programs. ​But this basically is, we are going to go through all of the anchor tags in ​a document, give me a list of all the anchor tags in a document. ​So these tags are sitting there in this document, you know, ​blah blah blah anchor tag, blah blah blah anchor tag, blah blah blah anchor tag. ​And so what this basically says is give me a list of those anchor tags. 
​Anchor tag, anchor tag, anchor tag, and comma, comma, comma. ​Now these tags are themselves objects, and it has the data in the anchor tag and ​you have to kind of query those. ​But given that this is a list, then the tag is going to go through ​each of the anchor tags in the document and iterate through them. ​And it's going to pull out the href. ​Href equals quote ... quote, right? ​It's pulling this text out and that's what we get using tag.get. ​So this is like a dictionary. 
​Get the href key or None. ​And so then this will loop through. ​It retrieves dr-chuck.com/page1.htm. ​And then it prints out trivially with no regular expressions, no nothing. ​It just prints the links out. ​Now if you do this to a page that has more links you will get many links here, okay? ​So that is a simple use of the BeautifulSoup library ​to retrieve and parse HTML and ​pull out anchor tags, which is really sort of the beginning of a browser. 
​I mean, a beginning of a web crawler. ​So if we go all the way back to the beginning of this chapter, ​we started with the notion of computers making phone calls using sockets. ​They call to a host, and a port within that host, and ​then they have a two-way socket that they can send and retrieve data. ​We have to consult the application protocols like HTTP. ​HyperText Transfer Protocol. ​To figure out what we send and how we send it and when we send it. ​Who talks first, what the responses are, and what the data is, and ​how to interpret that data. 
​Like the headers, followed by a blank line, followed by the data. ​That's all part of the protocol, right? ​And then we made it even simpler with urllib, so that's just like one line, go get it. ​If you do a .read, you get the data as well. ​And then with BeautifulSoup, if you're dealing with HTML, ​BeautifulSoup really simplifies it. ​So in a surprisingly few lines of code you can do the hard part of a web crawler. ​And that's one of the things that people really like about Python. 
​You think, I want to do this. ​And like 30 minutes later, you've got a basic web crawler working. ​And so the support for HTML, HTTP, and sockets in Python ​is one of the very, very charming things that people really like about Python. 