Now we're going to talk about object lifecycle. ​Like I said, we've been talking about this all along, ​but now we're going to be a little more formal about it. ​Objects are created, used, and discarded. ​You don't have to think about this too much, ​because it's just done automatically. ​This is a concept in computer science that ​we call garbage collection and that is when ​you're done with an object and you want to ​clean things up and you want to get the memory back. ​We have special blocks of code that ​we as the object creator can say, ​you know what, I want to be involved ​in the moment of creation and ​I want to be involved at ​the moment you're throwing this away. ​We use constructors a lot, ​that's the under in it. 
​You see that all the time. ​Destructors, we tend not ​to worry too much about what happens ​when we're going away because usually all we're doing ​is the memory is being given back to the system. ​It's not like usually we have to do ​something unless your object is really ​complex and has some scarce resource ​perhaps that you've got in it like a database connection. ​Again, that's super advanced stuff. ​I just want to talk about constructors ​and destructors now, ​not that we're going to use them ​at all in this class, literally. ​But when you start talking to ​databases and you're creating ​connections and those things, ​that's where a destructor might be. ​There might be some scarce resource ​that is connected to something on another computer or ​something that you do want to give back or ​something the operating system ​has that you do want to get back. 
​The primary purpose of the constructor is to set ​up some instance variables ​to have the proper initial values. ​I was calling it, it's ​constructed and then it's initialized. ​The code that gets called is the constructor code. ​This is the object oriented term as constructor, ​but I think of it as the initializer because ​the construction happens before the init is called. ​The world calls a constructor and no one's going to be ​mad at you for calling _init, the constructor. ​There you go. In this one we've got a class party animal. 
​The party method is the same. ​I just added a print statement to ​the constructor so we can see ​when that happens and ​a print statement which is ​already there in the party method. ​Then I have now added a double _del_. ​Now the interesting thing here is that's also the same. ​There's a del paren function looking like thing, ​which actually is a shortcut to calling this del method. ​Again, it's a syntax transformation ​because you actually can ​call del on an object in ​Python and it calls this del method. ​All we did in here just I'm trying to track how ​it's created and destroyed. 
​This destruction might be counterintuitive to you, ​so that's why I'm going to do this. ​We've got instrumented construction message, ​a method message, and a destructor message. ​We create an = PartyAnimal ​which constructs the object ​and calls the init method to initialize it. ​Then we call an party twice. ​Then this is the part that's a little weird. ​We say an = 42. ​Now, right before that, an = 42 statement, ​an held an object. 
​That's what it was. ​Technically, it's pointing to an object but ​an was an object in our world. ​When we say an = 42, ​the object is gone. ​What happens is this Python is like, ​well an was a party animal object ​and now I'm going to put a 42 in there. ​But right before I put that 42 in, ​I better get rid of that object. ​You have caused the destructor to be called by ​overwriting an that used to have an object in it. ​I think that's cool. 
​Now you don't have to know about this ​because there's memory inside of the party animal object. ​But as soon as an doesn't have a reference to it, ​as soon as an is not looking at it anymore, ​we want that memory back. ​Again, this is 12 bytes of memory. It doesn't matter. ​But if there's millions of these things, ​millions of strings that you're creating and ​deleting and using the same variable over and over again, ​Python is carefully reclaiming ​the memory every time you overwrite with a variable. ​If you look at the output, ​you see the construction. ​It starts which is that first line an = PartyAnimal. 
​Then you see party method get called twice. ​So far, one, so far two. ​Then when we're assigning it to 42, ​out of the mist comes this, I am destructed. ​The instance variable self.x is still two, ​but a moment later that object is gone. ​It's been garbage collected. ​It's been reclaimed by the object system. ​It's been reclaimed by Python and can be ​used to create new objects. 
​Then at the end we just print out ​an contains an which is 42. ​We implicitly are calling the destructor. ​Again, we didn't have any work we wanted to do ​in this destructor in our party animal class. ​All I want to do is print it so you could see ​that there is a life cycle of creation, ​initialization, execution, ​and then destruction, deallocation, garbage collection. ​In object programming, a constructor in a class is ​a special block of statements ​called when an object is created. ​Again, I hope by now that's intuitive. ​Many instances, we create lots and lots of objects. 
​The class is the template for making these objects. ​We can distore each distinct object in its own variable, ​and we call this having multiple instances. ​Each instance, each object has ​its own copy of the instance variables. ​Let's take a look at this. ​In this code, we go back to what we had before. ​We have added in the init, another variable, ​self.name and we're seeing ​that constructors can have parameters. ​The constructor can have a parameter that then we ​copy into the instance variable, self.name. 
​It's really the instance variable name. ​Self happens to be our alias to the instance itself, ​and the dot means within. ​I like to read that is name within self, ​is how I think of that. ​Then we print that we've constructed it and we have ​our party animal and that's the same ​except we do print out the name. ​Then what we're going to do is we're ​going to make a party animal with a name of ​Sally and store that in the variable ​S. That constructs a party animal, ​puts in Sally, x = 0, name = Sally. ​Then we call the party method on the Sally object. 
​Then we call J, party animal with Jim. ​We're going to make a new one and ​we're going to store that one in J. ​Then the constructor is called again. ​This time z is Jim and self.name is Jim. ​We call j.party which calls the party method in ​the J object and ​s.party which calls the method in the S object. ​Let's track this through. ​At the moment we're calling party animal, Sally. 
​We're like make a thing then call init and that will ​make the instance variable x be ​zero and the instance variable name be Sally. ​Then we call s.party and that increments ​the x attribute in the S object to be one. ​Then we say, now ​let's take that template and build another object. ​But this time we're going to put Jim in is the name, ​and x is automatically zero. ​The same initializer was ​called as part of the construction of this, ​and so it's x = 0, name = Jim. ​Now you're beginning to see how the purpose of ​the code we write in _init_. ​That purpose is to get ​the things set up and we've got two variables, ​we've got to put them in there. 
​Then we can use them. ​Then we call j.party which adds ​one to the J instance of our party animal, ​gets added to one and we still have both of these things. ​J still exists and S still ​exists and we call the S party, ​and then x becomes two in that instance. ​Again, I'm only showing you two, ​but there could be millions. ​You could have millions of ​strings and each of those strings is ​a different instance and has different attributes, ​but the same methods generally. ​Up next we're going to go the last little like, ​oh, you can do this too. ​It's called inheritance. 
​Inheritance is basically our way of reusing code, ​defining one object, and then creating an object ​that extends that object and adds new capabilities. 