​So welcome to Chapter 13. ​We're going to talk about web services. ​And we've been talking about moving data using the request/response cycle and ​HTTP and urllib. ​Web services is really adding a layer of formalism on top of that. ​Where we're just being a little more formal about how we do this and ​basically, at some point we'll just switch from it's moving data back and ​forth to these are are APIs, application program interfaces. ​And so, like we've said before, this request/response cycle that ​was originally for documents and images, has been used for data. ​And we have been coming up with ways to move data in a way that really have ​nothing to do with humans viewing them, but instead have programs producing and ​consuming this data. 
​And the basic idea is you have data in a program, and ​so we've got two programs here, and they're going to communicate across the Internet. ​So we might have a Python program that's producing the data. ​Maybe it's reading a database, maybe it's reading a file. ​Who knows what it is. ​But inside it has a Python data structure, like a dictionary. ​And we want to send that across the network. ​Okay, and so the network is not Python. 
​The network is not Java. ​The network is a data, I mean it's data that's going to go across. ​And so we have worked out, over the years, ​what we call the Wire Protocol, or how the data is put on the wire, or ​how the data leaves one system, transits a network, and then enters another system. ​And in that destination system, it's not always Python. ​It could be another program. ​And so, perhaps, ​our Python dictionary in this other system needs to be a Java HashMap. ​And so, we can't say that we're going to send Python data across the network, and ​we can't say that we're going to send Java data across the network. 
​We just have to send network on some format that we agree on. ​And so we have to argue about what the format is and say, ​okay we're going to do this, and this XML, which is one of the wire formats. ​And it's, okay we're going to take this data that's in a Python dictionary and ​we're going to, XML looks kind of like HTML and it has less thans and ​greater thans as tags. ​And we're going to send a person across the network, ​person that's going to have a name and a phone number. ​That's the data we're going to send across. ​And we're going to say, that's our wire format. ​It's not how Python thinks about it, it's not how Java thinks about it. 
​It is an agreed on intermediate protocol that is just text, right? ​It's not internal memory. ​And the act of going from an internal representation on one computer ​out to a sort of interchange format is called serialization. ​And that has to do with the fact that, in the old days we had these wires, and ​we sent the data serially, across one character at a time. ​So it was taking, from the internal memory of the computer ​a format that we could sort of send one character at a time, character, character, ​character, character, character, so we called this a serialization format. ​And so, then the act of taking the data off of the wire and ​turning it into a new internal data structure, in the new environment, ​potentially in a very new language, is called de-serialization. ​So we take our internal structure, serialize it, send it across the network, ​then we receive it. 
​We de-serialize it, and then we use it in this other programming language, ​in whatever structure makes sense, in that particular programming language. ​The two types of serialization formats that ​we're going to talk about are XML and JSON. ​And so those are the two. ​And XML's kind of like the older of the two, and ​JSON is the more modern of the two. ​XML is the more complex and, some would say, more rigorous of the two, and ​JSON is the lighter-weight version of it. ​So you take your Python dictionary, you produce JSON. ​You send JSON across the network as a string or a document, and ​then you receive the document, and ​then you turn it into whatever it is it's going to be on that far side. 
​So that's the basic idea of agreeing on data formats. ​And so you argue here in the middle, we can argue, the Python people can come to ​the argument, the Java people, and the JavaScript people, they can all come and ​argue about what the best wire format is. ​And that kind of engineering of an interchange that is not particularly ​suited to any language better than any other language, is part of the argument of ​building these data oriented documents versus sort of human readable oriented documents. ​So, the first thing we're going to talk about is XML. ​And, as the first of these two formats we're going to talk about. 