Hello, welcome to the chapter on Python objects. ​This chapter is, in a sense, ​a little different than Chapters 1-10 in ​that learning object-oriented programming ​for me is like a lifetime and I'm not going to, ​in this next lecture, ​teach you everything that I ever want ​to teach you about object-oriented programming. ​It's so beautiful and so deep and so complex. ​What this is really about is ​getting you used to hearing the words that ​were used to talk about ​object-oriented programming and getting you to freak ​out less about these words and ​over time and over multiple courses, ​these words will grow in terms of meaning. ​I don't think I can in this one set of ​lectures just put all the meaning ​to it because you just can't. ​You can relax a little bit ​and you can enjoy this lecture. ​We're going to talk about some syntax, ​so there's going to be some Python code, ​but what I'm saying is this ​is something that you're supposed to ​absorb rather than really ​get because the really getting is a much longer process. 
​The first thing that we'll notice is ​if you look at any documentation, ​the word object has already been in there. ​This is like some list documentation and ​it says here are some methods of list object. ​The list data type has some methods. ​Well, what's this word object ​and what's this word method? ​Now to some degree, you ​don't have to know what this means because ​you say list out a pen I've showed you ​a code that uses list out a pen all along. ​What's this dot? ​Well, the dot is the syntax that says here ​is an object or a class and ​then a thing within it, that's what the dot is. 
​The append is inside the list object or the list class. ​Now we're just going to add something to ​the terminology of this. ​Syntax is easy and you can sort ​it on stack, overflow, copy-paste, ​or whatever but now ​we're going to learn about the terms ​and what these terms mean. ​Again, you keep looking at the documentation, ​the word object, and we do databases. ​The connection object, well, ​the key thing is if you've got an object, ​you should expect that there are things like ​attributes and methods inside that object, ​and so call it it's execute method, ​the method to perform. ​Again, the first thing ​I want you to do is be able to read this documentation ​and when you see the word object and you see ​the word method and you see the word attribute, ​you don't go, huh? ​Let's start to talk about ​object orientation because one of the things about ​object orientation is a concept we call ​abstraction and that is ​there's stuff that's inside something, ​the implementation, and then there's the outside world. 
​Let's start talking about programs. ​If you think of this program as ​an object of the boundary of ​what's inside of it and what's outside of it. ​The inside is some three lines of code that we've ​seen before where we read a variable, ​we convert it to an integer, we add one to it, ​and we print that out and that you ​could think of as like a gadget that you bought, ​the floor converter gadget, ​and you just talk to it and say, ​what is the United States floor if ​the European floor is three and it goes four. ​That's a gadget. The inside of it is this logic, ​and the outside of it is what we ​give it and what we get back from it. ​You wouldn't need to know if ​you had this floor conversion gadget, ​you wouldn't need to know it's Python it doesn't matter. ​It could be using artificial intelligence ​for all you know but it doesn't ​matter because we have ​this abstract object that does something for us. 
​Again, this one, of course, is super simple. ​If then we start looking not just from the program, ​but within a program, ​a program is made up of ​many cooperating objects and ​this whole notion of there's the inside and ​the outside that happens over and over ​again like a series of onions and it ​works its way all the way down. ​When you have three strings in your program, ​you have like three little islands of ​capability and each of the strings has some data in it, ​it has some methods, ​etc and so you can think ​of what you've been doing as you write programs. ​You are orchestrating multiple objects. ​You're taking something out of one object, ​putting it in another one, ​or you're putting an object inside of another object, ​like a dictionary or a list. ​You're like, here's a string and ​I'm going to put it in a list. ​Well, the string is an object and the list is an object. 
​You're the orchestrator of all these. ​Your program is like lots of objects working ​together in ways that you are constructing, ​and objects interact with each other ​all the time under your control. ​What is an object? ​I keep saying this word, it's a bit of self contained. ​Again, there's an outside, and inside that's a ​self contained bit of data. ​Inside of the inside, ​there's code in it and there's data in it. ​A key aspect of object in a programming is in order for ​you to not have to look at ​the complexity of what a string object is really doing. 
​If you were to go on to Github and look at ​the source code of Python and look at the string object, ​it's probably 2,500 lines of code. ​How hard is it to make a string? ​The answer is, for us in Python, it's really easy. ​But under the covers, ​the work to make a string work is 2,500 lines of code, ​or probably even more. ​But the idea is that object in programming says, ​let's make a thing that's easy to use and ​not be forced to understand what's going on inside. ​Someone can be an expert, ​and they're in the Python world, ​there probably is 10 people ​who are expert in what's inside the string object, ​and we don't care because we have ​a nice interface between us and them, ​so we can ignore unneeded detail. ​Like I said, we have been using objects all along. 
​String objects. Integers are objects. ​They're dictionary objects, list object. ​Some are tiny and some are big, ​some are collections, ​some are simple scalar things. ​We've used them all along. ​If we look at that program, ​send some data to it, ​that data goes into a string object, ​and then we might use ​a dictionary and we might produce another object, ​and we might print that string out, ​and so you can see the code that you're doing, ​even though you're just writing Python, ​you're orchestrating objects, ​and then each of those objects has ​a bit of code and a bit of data, ​and that's on the inside. ​You get to not worry so much about that, ​but the person who's writing ​the string class or the dictionary class worries ​a lot about the code and the data ​that's inside each object, ​but it goes both ways. 
​The person who's writing the string or ​dictionary class can ignore what your program is doing. ​Because they're looking outward from this little bubble. ​They're looking outward and they're like, ​I'm going to let you do this, ​I'm going to let you do an upper case, ​I'm going to let you reverse the string, ​and I got to write all that code. ​But look, I don't care how you do that. ​You can reverse it if you want. ​I don't care if you do reverse or not. ​So the object creators are ​giving capabilities to us that we then use, ​but we don't have to look at what they're doing and ​they don't have to look at what we're doing. 
​We can not care about how ​difficult the string object was to implement. ​Again, it has to do with creating ​boundaries and not having ​detail pass across those boundaries, ​and having well defined rules, ​we call them interfaces. ​Well defined rules for what ​the string object is supposed to do. ​Over the years in Python, ​the string object has gotten better and better. ​Faster, better with memory, more efficient. ​Someone did a PhD thesis ​on how to do strings better in Python, ​and then they put it in a Python, ​and narco didn't change at all because we ​don't care what's going on inside that thing. ​Because of how object oriented ​programming isolates things, ​and that allows them to be beautiful and complex, ​rich, powerful, and then easy to use. 
​Here's some definitions. ​A class is the actual code ​that defines how an object is going to behave. ​But it's not the object itself. ​You could think of it in ​my little picture of a cookie and a cookie cutter. ​The class, a cookie cutter is not a cookie, ​but you can use the cookie cutter ​to make lots of cookies. ​The cookies are objects or instances. ​We use these two names depending ​on what book people read or whatever it might be. 
​When everyone says class and then they might say, ​oh, I made a real cookie. ​That's a cookie object or a cookie instance. ​It's a particular instance. ​I like instance, ​but most everybody just calls them objects. ​Then within that, there is every class defines ​a set of fields and attributes ​and then methods or messages, ​and again, there's two kind ​of cultural terminologies that are equivalent. ​The method is I either call some code inside the class, ​or I send a message to the class which activates ​some code inside the class which is the same thing. ​Or I'm like, I want to pull something out of the class, ​just some data out like how long is ​the thing or is it active yet, ​that's like a field or an attribute. 
​Again, don't be concerned about the fact that you ​hear this terminology two different ways. ​Class and object are probably ​the hardest parts to understand. ​The class defines ​the abstract characteristics of a thing. ​It's not the thing itself. ​It's the pattern or the template. ​It's like when this thing is created, ​it's going to have these attributes, ​these fields, these properties, these methods. ​You might say it's like a blueprint, ​but it's not a building. 
​That's a class. ​An instance is when you make one, ​you use the template and then you construct ​a thing out of cookie dough or perhaps out of wood. ​Here's a blueprint for a building, ​and I bring a bunch of ​wood and pound it together according ​to the blueprint and now I have ​an instance of a building. ​Literally, if you have a blueprint ​for a building and you go ​next door and you want to build the same building, ​you just bring more wood and make another building. ​The instance or object ​is the thing that actually stores the data. ​It's the thing that you interact with. ​You generally don't interact with the class, ​except at the moment that an instance is ​created from the class and you interact with that, ​the class is defining all the behaviors. 
​The code we write when we write this, ​and you'll see this in a bit, ​we write the class, ​then we make objects and use the objects. ​But really the code is in the class. ​I told you it's going to take a while ​to get all this right. ​It's simple and beautiful once you get it. ​A method is in the class, ​but it's also in each instance or object. ​The method is telling it to do something ​like string upper case, string, reverse. ​Do something. It's like a verb. 
​The method and message are often used interchangeably. ​Like I said, the method is like I'm going to call. ​I like method more than message in ​this case because I think of it as if I write my class, ​I put code in the class and then ​I activate the method which calls that code. ​I like method better than message. ​Object pures message better ​because the message focuses on the interaction. ​A string object sends ​a message to the dictionary object ​and it's the picture with all the arrows. ​I get why they like message, ​but for me I just ​want to see the code and think of the code. 
​For me I'm more of a, that line of code, ​calls that line of code and that's a method. ​That's why I like method better. ​You can use the built in capability in Python called dir. ​We've been talking about type like, ​what thing is this? ​Well, it's a string thing or it's a floating thing, ​or an integer thing, or a list or a dictionary. ​That's just the class that was ​used to construct that thing. ​You see the word class there. 
​It's a str class, it's a float class, ​it's an int class, it's a list class, ​it's a dict class. ​But then you want to say, well, ​what are the methods and attributes? ​There is a function called dir and you can ​pass an instance which is like x or even a class n, ​and it says these are the capabilities. ​It's a pretty weak way to read ​the documentation when you could ​go read the documentation. ​But I sometimes use it. ​Is there two L's in that or one L? ​My problem is I go back and forth between ​languages like is it L strip or L trim? 
​Because some of the languages, ​the concept of strip is trim. ​I'm sitting in Python and I'm like string.trim. ​It's like, no, that's PHP, I think. ​See, I can't use too many languages. ​But I'm not saying the dir ​is a good way to look at documentation. ​But it does tell you that Python itself is ​self aware of the nature of objects, ​and classes, and methods. ​It was valuable for me to look at this and say, ​Python knows all this stuff. 
​It remembers it. ​When you make a variable, ​it remembers where that variables methods came from. ​Up next we're going to actually, ​instead of just talking about classes in the ​abstract, classes in abstraction. ​We're going to build our own class. 