Hello everybody, welcome to Python for Everybody. ​We're playing with the web services chapter right now. ​And if you want to get the materials for this course, ​you can go here and download the sample zip, samplecode.zip. ​I've got this all sitting already on my computer. ​I also have the whole thing in GitHub if you want to get it out of GitHub. ​So the thing we're talking about now is talking about the json1.py example ​from the book. ​So JSON is kind of like XML except a lot simpler and ​that's why a lot of people like it. 
​It's not that JSON is always better, ​but JSON is better in a lot of situations that don't require the complexity of XML. ​So we start to import JSON, JSON is built into Python, but ​we have to ask to import it. ​Again, we're using a triple-coded string to put the JSON in there. ​And JSON looks a lot like Python dictionaries, key value pairs. ​Key value pairs, in this case, this is a key and ​the value itself is another dictionary, or in JSON terms, an object. ​But again, key value pairs, within key pairs values, within key value pairs. ​And all these little cursor guides have to, ​all these little curly brace guids have to line up properly. 
​And so like all the time, ​this is a string which we normally would read and decode from the Internet. ​But for now, we're just going to have it in there load json.loads. ​That's going to the JSON library, pull out load string. ​And parse this, which turns this set of curly braces, ​spaces, commas, and perhaps syntax errors, into a structured object. ​And if we had made a syntax error in here, then this would blow up. ​But if this doesn't make a syntax error, if this doesn't blow up, ​then we have a structured representation. ​Now, the difference between XML and JSON is that ​this turns into a Python dictionary, with key value pairs, okay? 
​And so once we have this, this is a dictionary And we can say info sub name. ​And that's the exact syntax that we would use to get the dictionary. ​And that's going to extract this value out of there. ​And if we want to go in deeper, we can say info sub email and ​that is what info sub email is right there. ​And then sub hide, so that's a dictionary within a dictionary and ​so if we run this, ​python3 json1.py it digs in really fast. ​And so this is why people tend to like JSON is because ​you read the JSON which is actually a syntax derived from JavaScript, ​when it looked just like the syntax for Python. ​So, that's moving an object, ​a JSON object that turns directly into a Python dictionary with nested dictionary. 
​So now we're going to look at json2 and so json2 we're going to see a list. ​An array and JSON terms but it turns into a list of Python terms. ​So this is a list of dictionaries, ​in JavaScript that would be an array of objects. ​But in Python it's a list of dictionaries. ​So we'll just pretend that it's a list of dictionaries. ​Again, we load the string, parsing, looking for syntax errors. ​So let's just make a syntax error here and run our python json2.py. 
​And you'll see where it blows up. ​It blows up at line 15, which is right here, it's like this loads blows up. ​Now, you could put a try accept around it to save it but we're not going to do that. ​And it even complains it says, look we're expecting something here In the line 11, ​its the line 11 of the JSON which starts at line 4. ​And so I put my little square brace back in so its not syntactically broken. ​So, let's run it again and make sure that she runs and yes she does. ​So, this parses and converts from the JSON syntax into a python in this case list. 
​Because it's got square braces instead of curly braces. ​The previous example had square braces and we can then take a line of it and ​it's an array, it's a list, and we see that there are two things in there. ​And then we're going to iterate through and this item is going to iterate through ​these dictionaries, that dictionary followed by that dictionary. ​So the first time, it's item sub name, ​which is this value right here, and then item sub id, which is this value. ​So you can dig right into this, but you're not using get, ​and you're not using the weird extra find, or find all, or ​anything you just are going at these structures directly. ​And so you can quickly extract this stuff out and we read through id's, ​name is Chuck, oops, name is Chuck. ​There are no attributes, by the way, x is 2, and so we had to make x. 
​So if you look at the XML, we had this concept of attributes on the outer tag. ​These things are also not named, we just have to know what we're looking for. ​So JSON represents simple structures, but it's much simpler to use. ​So I hope this has been useful to you and ​talked to you in a bit about some more JSON.