​Hello and welcome to yet another code ​walk through for Python for everybody. ​In this walk through, we're going to play with geocoding, ​which is really taking a text version of ​an address and turning it into ​a well known to a location. ​We see this all the time on map applications. ​This map application that I'm ​using is called OpenStreetMap. ​It's an open source, openly maintained. ​It's a wonderful organization ​that gives us an alternative to ​the commercial map companies like ​Google Map who play games with all of us. ​I'm a big fan of open source, ​big fan of data resources. 
​I'm going to search for a place, ​one of my favorite restaurants in the whole world. ​I'm using a text address, ​I'm like, where is this thing? ​It found to me and found all this ad, ​and we see things like the GPS coordinates, ​or the coordinates of latitude, ​longitude coordinates here. ​There is one of my favorite restaurants in the world. ​The act of going from ​a text address to a location is called geocoding. ​It's a super common thing. ​We've got a bit of sample code here. 
​I am going to edit this code. ​You can get it from www.py4e.com/code3/opengeo.py ​and save it to some locations so you ​can edit and play with this bit of code. ​I've got it right here. I'm actually ​editing the master copy. ​It's in GitHub, so I will be able to fix it. ​Don't worry about that. ​Let's do a bit of walk through. 
​The API that we're going to be doing ​is a thing called Geo API and it's ​a company and they take that ​OpenStreetMap data and they make it available ​to us in this geocoding API for example. ​This is the thing that we're going to be doing. ​You can see that the idea of ​geocoding is you take a text, like I've said, ​a text address, there's ​all kinds of stuff. You can play with it. ​You can play they give you free playgrounds. ​If you look at this, this is not exactly free. ​There is a free level of it. 
​You still have to go get an API key. ​If you start using it more and more, ​you got to pay money and it gets pretty high. ​This is 250,000 whatever, ​600 bucks a month. ​That's where the real API is. ​But if you take a look at the code, ​we're not going to hit that API ​because otherwise you'd have to sign up for account. ​Although it'd be good exercise, ​you could definitely use ​their official API endpoint ​if you signed up for an account. ​But I have given you what I call ​a heavily rate limited proxy of that. 
​It means that I've got a copy of it. ​I've got a database where I ​cache the most commonly used things, ​and I use Cloudflare, ​and we talked about that in the lecture. ​It's also super heavily rate limited, ​which means it slows you down ​to a crawl if you over use it. ​The rate limit is designed to allow you to ​get what you need done for this class, but not more. ​The prefix for this is py4e-data.dr-chuck.net/opengeo?. ​Then afterwards you put a q equals query parameter. ​I've got this and you see the q equals, ​is just URL's and HTTP, ​the plus, and that is the space, ​this is called URL encoding and the percent ​two C is URL encoded. 
​Because you can't just put a comma there, ​you actually have to take the comma and encoded. ​But if we click on this click, ​you will get some JSON. ​Just like we talked about in the lecture ​and in there's all kinds of stuff. ​It's a feature collection ​which means it's an array name features. ​Then you've got the country. ​You got the latitude and longitude, ​which we're going to go after. ​Then we're going to look at this formatted address. 
​You can test this in the browser without a key. ​We're going to retrieve this. ​Now, there's this little bit ​of stuff that we've got to do. ​Just don't worry too much about this and ​that this URL open ​wants to check sometimes the certificates of the HTTPS, ​we want to tell it that we're going to take data even ​though the certificate may not be well known by Python. ​That's because Python, last I checked, ​doesn't ship with a ton of well-known certificates. ​It's a long story. ​Here's some code for you. 
​This is basically saying, ​we're not going to verify the certificate. ​Now, if we look at the certificate of this, ​you can actually see that this is ​a secure content verified and ​it's a Cloudflare certificate, ​and here's some more information about it, ​blah, blah, blah. ​What we're saying is we're telling Python not to look too ​closely at this stuff because we're just reading it. ​You probably would want to ​solve this if you were doing production, ​but for us, this is just the quick way we do it. ​I make a big while loop and I ask for a location. ​If I just press Enter, ​it's going to break, and I strip it, ​and then I create a dictionary in order to do ​this little q equals thing. ​Now, I could change the space to a plus, ​I could change the comma to a %2c, ​or I could call a library ​called urllib.parse.url.urlencode(parms), which takes ​a key-value pair in a dictionary, ​so q equals address, ​and that does all the fancy stuff. 
​So I print it, and then I use ​urllib.request open with that URL, ​context equals ctx, ​ignore any certificate problems, ​and then read the data from the URL. ​Now, if we look at the raw data, ​let me retrieve this again. ​If you look at the raw data, ​this is actually what it looks like. ​It's very compact and dense, ​doesn't have a lot of spaces. ​Pretty printing as we well know says, oh, ​let's throw some spaces in so at least we ​can figure out what's going on. ​then there's this JSON viewer ​which is not really what's coming back, ​but you can show and hide things in this JSON viewer. ​That's okay, I guess, ​but I like to see the raw data. ​I do like it pretty printed. 
​In this particular browser, ​which I'm using, is Firefox, ​when it sees JSON, ​it gives you some options as to what is supposed to work. ​Now, this decode, we've talked about this before. ​The data on the web that we just got, ​this data is in UTF-8, ​and that's because there could be ​all kinds of characters in here that ​are not simple ASCII characters, ​so the web pretty much uses UTF-8. ​When we get a read, ​that is UTF-8, ​we've read data from the Internet and it's a UTF-8 data. ​Decode says, okay, look at it, ​make sure it's UTF-8 and then give it back to ​me in the form of a Python string data, ​which is unicode, ​and so unicode is not the same as UTF-8, ​unicode is how we manipulate things inside Python. ​By making everything Python, ​everything unicode and Python, ​it all works inside Python, ​you can encode it and decode ​it when you move it out and back in. ​Then we say how many characters we got, ​and then we parse it. ​json.loads is a parse and might fail. 
​Then we look for a sanity check to make ​sure if the features thing is in there, ​so that's looking for this thing, ​like just checking if it exists. ​If you look at features, features is an array, ​and so for sanity, we also say, ​hey, we only got one back. ​Now, in this Ann Arbor example, it's going to work. ​But if you put something in, ​this sanity checking may or may not work. ​What I'm going to do is, well, let's just run it. ​I'll just run it without uncommenting anything. ​So let's come back here and I'm going to ​say Python opengeo.py, ​and I'm going to type Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
​So it's retrieving it. Oh, I mistyped it. ​So you see the rate limiting in action. ​So it figured out that I ​typo-ed and it went and found Ann Arbor, ​Michigan, it found the real place, ​and that's part of what you do. ​This geocoding is kind of a search engine. ​I made a mistake. ​Now, you'll notice it's a lot quicker if I type it ​right because it already has it, ​and so it rate limits things. 
​See how fast that was. ​That's the proxies working. ​In that first one when I typed it wrong, ​the proxy was actively slowing you down. ​I'm like, oh, my code's broken. ​But it was actively slowing me down because it was mad ​at me because I was asking for too many things. ​But then it doesn't ​rate limit you on things that it already has, ​which are cheap for it because it's all very well proxy. ​But we retrieved the data, ​we got 13, 19 characters. 
​We've figured out parse the latitude and the longitude. ​See we print that out and then we got the location. ​Now, I can't think of a better way to describe it. ​We're just going to delete a bunch of working code. ​I'm going to delete this, I'm going to delete this. ​I'm going to say lat = 42, ​lon = 42, and location = Jerk Pit. ​Now, what I did is I had all that code ​that looked really cool is gone now. 
​If I run it again, I can say Ann Arbor, Michigan. ​See, you got a download error. ​It was like, I don't know what that is. It was unhappy. ​But you'll notice this download error code ​checked because I was typing in ​cursors and keys and weird things and it ​was not happy. Let's do it again. ​I wonder what would trigger that in this. 
​Now, you see we're running, ​but we are not looking at the latitude and the longitude. ​Let me show you how I build this code. ​The first thing I'm going to do is ​I'm just going to print ​this stuff and so we're going to see it. ​Now, this is that same data that we saw in the browser. ​What I want out of this data, ​and it takes a while to figure it out, ​is I want this lat and this lon value. ​I can guess what this is, ​but I'll show you how I work through it. ​I look at this and I say, ​the outer thing that I want is features. 
​This is an outer outer dictionary, basically features. ​That's in this variable, js. ​That's a dictionary variable. ​If I say print ​js sub features. ​What I'm doing is I'm going to ​comment this part out and we're going to indent that. ​I got to put a closed curly brace there, ​comma indent = 4. ​What I'm going to do is I'm going to work out-in. 
​Originally, it was dumping js, ​now I'm going to dump js for ​features. I'm going to save that. ​I got to keep running it ​because I didn't type it correct. ​I got an extra parentheses and I put ​a semicolon because I've written ​too much Java and JavaScript ​in my life and I can't help it. ​I got to add the json.dumps. ​Here we go. I should ​have just copied that from the previous line. 
​Now, I got to dig in ​one level and then I just got a pretty print it. ​That's json.dumps with an indent of four. ​Now, what you see? It seems subtle, ​but I went in and now the only thing ​I'm seeing is the array. ​In this array, ​there's the zero with object or ​the zero with dictionary in this array. ​Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to make ​a tiny change here because the thing that came back from ​js sub features is an array ​and I'm going to grab the first item in that array. ​What you're going to notice next time ​is this is going to be ​the outer bit because we went into this array sub zero. 
​You see the outer thing is now ​a dictionary and it is of type feature. ​One of the keys ​is type and one of the keys is properties. ​Now, we want the stuff inside properties. ​What we're printing here ​that we want to go into the key within that dictionary. ​We have a dictionary, but we have an array sub zero, ​which returns a dictionary, ​and now we're going to get the sub properties. ​This seems slow, ​but it going to finish. ​Now what we have is we have a dictionary. 
​Long string now is a dictionary. Let me move this over. ​That long string is a dictionary ​and within that dictionary there ​is a lon and a lat. ​Now just for testing, ​I'm going to say, look up in that dictionary, a lon. ​I'm going to run it again now. ​We see that the actual thing retrieved using ​this whole thing was the number, that is the longitude. ​Now what I'm going to do, I've gotten this far. 
​Now what I'm going to do is instead ​of the longitude being 42, ​that's what the lon is going to look up. ​We can pretty much ​say that the lat is going to be the lat. ​We're going to now, I think, ​be able to look up lon and lat. ​The lat and lon are correct. ​Now, I forgot. ​I'm going to take this off the print statement, ​the debug print, and run it again. ​We found the lat and the lon. 
​I went up now, so I'm not printing lon and lat. ​That's easy. It's just formatted. ​The key inside the properties is formatted. ​Now what I can do is I can find the location by grabbing ​this and just look up formatted. ​I'll just comment this a little bit out temporarily. ​I just hit Control C, Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
​Now I'm getting the formatted address. ​I'm getting the latitude and I'm getting the longitude. ​When we started I ​had code that pretty much looked like this. ​It was a little bit different order. ​You saw me successively dig hierarchically into this. ​Now I was like, here we go. ​It's an outer dictionary, ​sub features, it's an array, ​sub zero feature, sub zero, ​and then sub properties, sub lat. 
​Now you might just figure that ​out and immediately derive this long thing. ​I'll just say that every time I try to do ​that, I mess it up. ​One tiny little mistake. ​Let's just say you missed on this. ​I'll just make a mistake here. ​You just said, I got that first entry in ​features and I'm just going to go into lat. ​That means that you're going to go straight into ​lat and you're going to see what happens then. 
​Boom. What it's saying is there is no key lat, ​and that's because you're in JS feature sub ​zero, sub lat. ​Again, it's easy because I made the mistake. ​This is the sub zero and I ​thought that lat was in this object, but it's not. ​You have to go into one more ​dictionary deep in the properties ​dictionary then you can go to lat. ​That's why this one works ​because I dive into the properties. ​I think I can get that back, ​save me some time, ​and now it should work again. 
​We're working. I hope you found this interesting. ​Geocoding is just fun. ​Later in the course we will make ​a map and do kind of a batch geocoding, ​use a database, et cetera, and then make a map. ​That's cool and you can place yourself on ​the map or a place you know on the map. ​I hope you enjoyed this. Cheers. 