​Now we're going to talk about inheritance. ​I'm going to guess that among all the things I've talked about, ​inheritance is going to be the part where you go like I don't get it. ​That's fair, just don't get it. ​It turns out that when it's all said and done, this is one of the most powerful ​capabilities and it has to do with store and reuse, and don't repeat yourself. ​We programmers hate saying the same thing over and over again. ​Like in a Django model, which is a future class every whole bunch of ​different objects need a date and a time of create date and update date. ​Do I want to type create date and update in 40 places or ​just extend a base class called the date stuff? 
​And so it's a balance and it's a bit art form, but ​it is a form of store and reuse and avoiding just pasting over and over. ​So every time you're coding and you're pasting over and over, you're like man, ​what if I want to change all this stuff now? ​I got 40 places, I just pasted this code in. ​And what if I mistyped the word create, right, ​in created at like a date or something? ​So we like to not repeat ourselves. ​So back to inheritance, we can make a new class by reusing an existing class and ​inheriting all the capabilities of that class and then extending it. ​So there's inherit and extend, and we're going to say, you know what, I like that, ​but I want to add a couple of things, I want to replace a couple of things, etc. 
​And so we call them the parent class or base class, and ​then the child class or the derived class. ​So subclasses is another form for the word for this. ​They're kind of more specialized, improved versions of classes which inherit ​attributes and behaviors from their parent classes and can introduce their own. ​So let's get right to it. ​So party animal, class party animal. ​We've done that before, right? ​That's our stuff where I took the destructor out, because remember, ​we don't care much about the destructor. 
​So we got an init method and a party method and we got an x and a name. ​Been doing this for a while now. ​The interesting part is the bottom part where I say class football fan. ​And the way I read this is class football fan extends party animal. ​So now we put a parentheses in the class statement, but ​that's not an instance, that's another class. ​So what we're saying is, and literally, if I didn't have anything below that ​a football fan would be another class that's identical to party animal. ​Because we've extended a class, which means we inherited all of its capabilities ​and we haven't changed anything and we haven't replaced anything and ​we hadn't added anything. 
​But now, after class, football fan, party animal, we're indented. ​And then we start doing some defs, and ​we def the double underscore init double underscore. ​And we're in effect, adding an init for the football fan class. ​But it turns out the first thing we've got to do is call the init in the party ​animal class. ​So that little gesture, super open paren dot underscore, underscore, init, ​underscore, underscore, open paren name, which is, ​of course, that parameter that we're passed in. ​That's saying, before I do the stuff I'm going to do in football fan, ​let's make sure all the stuff that is necessary for ​a functioning party animal, let's get that done. ​So we're constructing a football fan and initializing a football fan. 
​But the first thing we do is initialize the party animal, ​super, that is the superclass. ​We're in a subclass, superclass is the party animal is the superclass. ​Football fan is the subclass. ​And that super print, that's just hard coded, that's a thing you say. ​And I don't love this syntax. ​Other object owned approaches in different languages use different syntax for this. ​This just is what it is, it's a gesture. 
​And then what we're doing now is when that super is done, there is going to be an x, ​and there's going to be a name in football fan. ​And then we're going to add another attribute. ​This is the extending part, self points equals zero. ​So at the end of the creation of a football fan, it will have a name, ​an x and a points, and it will have a party method. ​But then we're going to add a touchdown method, and ​the touchdown method adds seven to the points and calls the party method. ​So party is not in football fan, party is in party animal. ​But because football fan has inherited everything that is party animal, ​bada boom, bada bing, we have got a party method, and we print it out. 
​And so now if we look at the code s equals party animal Sally. ​We can make one of those things and we can call s party, and ​that j equals football fan of Jim. ​That's going to construct a football fan, which is then going to call the init ​method for football fan, which is that init method is then going to call the init ​method for party animal, come back, and then add points. ​So even though it's not explicit in football fan, ​we inherited the party method from party animal. ​But then we can say j.touchdown, because Jim is a football fan, ​not just a party animal, okay. ​So what I'm really gaining here is I'm not repeating myself. ​I wanted that party method. 
​Now, in real code, the party method will be something useful, like uppercase or ​lowercase or reverse or something like that. ​And you're like, I don't want to rewrite the reverse function in this new thing. ​We might have a thing called uppercase string or something. ​So if we look through the code, ​we see that at the moment we construct the party animal. ​It's set x to zero and the name to Sally because it calls the init method of party ​animal, because it's not a football fan, it's just a party animal. ​So party animal is, in effect, unaware that football fan exists, and ​we can just use it like a class. ​And then we call the party method, and then that adds one to x. 
​Then we go to the next line, and we make a football fan. ​So as the initializer for football fan runs, ​which then calls the initializer party animal, then comes back and ​finishes the initialization of football fan, we're going to end up with ​an instance variable of x of zero, a name of Jim, and a points of zero. ​So that means it's fully constructed and fully initialized. ​And then we call the party method, and it adds one to x, ​and then we call the touchdown method, and it adds seven to the points. ​It's kind of intuitive, it's not too bad. ​So way we, so now we have two instances, but ​we have instances of a different class. ​But one of the classes, football fan, in a sense, includes inside of it everything ​that's in the party animal class because party animal is the base, ​class football fan is the subclass. 
​Party animal is the parent class football fan is the child class. ​Party animal is a class, football fan is a derived class. ​All that terminology that you might hear in a book or whatever, it's for ​all intents and purposes, the same thing. ​So now we're going to kind of summarize the definitions of all this stuff. ​A class is a template. ​It's not a thing, it's the definition of a shape of a thing. ​It is the cookie cutter. 
​It has all the details of what that thing's going to be when it's done ​including what attributes it's going to have, what methods it's going to have. ​But then when we make one, we make a cookie that's an object, ​but when we make a cookie, it's going to call the constructor, ​sets the cookie up with default values generally. ​And then inheritance is the ability to say, you know what, I like this class and ​I want to change it just a little bit and do my own thing. ​Sometimes people will build classes in various situations, and ​Django is a good example of this, where they'll build classes that your job is to ​extend it and you'll put a little tiny bit of stuff in it. ​And then all of a sudden you get like tens of hundreds of, ​not thousands of lines of code that you get for basically for free. ​So these sets of definitions is what I wanted you to learn in this class, ​and I don't expect you to be like a ninja warrior of object oriented ​programming at this point. ​I just want you to get used to me saying over and over and over again, object, ​constructor, destructor, method, attribute, ​I'm going to just say those words. 
​For all the classes I teach from now on, I'm just going to say those words and ​I just want you to understand them. ​So I hope you have enjoyed and gained something from this quick ​high level pass or object oriented programming in Python. 