​So "XML" is what we call the Extensible Markup Language. ​And basically XML, any serialization format has some special characters and ​then some rules about how to form the serialized document, ​basically, from the internal structures. ​And so the rules of XML and part of the reason that XML become popular is, ​it became popular at about the time that HTML became popular. ​Or you could almost say that XML influenced HTML. ​But the notion of less thans and greater thans as the active characters, ​as the way to tag or otherwise mark the information. ​And so, that's how it works, and so ​it works just like HTML, and there's start tags and end tags. ​And that sort of brackets a chunk of stuff, and so people is a tag. 
​And then person, and person, there that's another tag, an ending tag. ​And then name and /name, that's an ending tag. ​And the way to think about this is there is a simple element. ​These are called elements or ​nodes, and we'll have a couple of ways visualizing these coming up. ​There is one kind of element that just has some text in between. ​And so that is the simplest bit, it's called the simple element. ​And then another kind of element like this person actually just has, ​sort of, child nodes associated with it. 
​And so the simple elements are these, and ​then the complex elements are person and people. ​And so they're nested together. ​And the indenting is just something I'm showing you to make it look pretty. ​XML doesn't really care what extra spaces you put in, ​but it certainly helps us as human beings to understand what's going on. ​And so the primary purpose of XML is to share structured data. ​It was a simplified subset of this SGML, ​which kind of was the precursor to both XML and HTML. ​SGML was a little hard, so ​you could almost think of XML as like a simplified easy version of SGML. 
​And so here are sort of the basics of it. It has a start tag and an end tag. ​So that's what the start tag and end tag are. ​Start tag, end tag, start tag, end tag, start tag, end tag. ​Now, so that's what start tags and end tags, ​the end tags are the ones that have the slash. ​There is textual content, that's there's the stuff between the tags. ​So there's just the text, what you call the text nodes. 
​And then, there are attributes, and attributes are always on the start tags. ​So the phone and the email, and ​they are key-value pairs using double quotes, as the type="intl". ​And the key thing about XML versus HTML is we get to make up the tags. ​In HTML we say things like h1 or a for the anchor tag, ​or h1 for header level one. ​Here, based on how we are going to agree between the two applications exchanging ​data, you can say the tag is person and /person. ​You still have to follow the rules, though, there is a slash tag at the end. ​So attributes. And then you can also have a self-closing tag. 
​And that is, you just include this /> at the end of the open tag. ​And it's as if you have a closing tag of the same name with an empty text area. ​And so that's what this is saying, so that's a self-closing tag. ​Okay, like I said the whitespace doesn't really matter so much. ​We can pull these things up, we tend to indent them ​like any kind of programming environment to help our own reading. ​But, in general, whitespace, ​except in the middle of things like these text areas, the whitespace does matter. ​But, sort of, between here and here, the whitespace doesn't matter. 
​Between here and here, the whitespace doesn't matter. ​So the whitespace, these extra spaces that I used to indent it, ​it doesn't really matter. ​The only time it matters is in between, when you're in a text area. ​Here's some sample XML, just to give you some ideas. ​Here we have, there's always one big outer tag of XML, ​you have the start tag and an end tag. ​And there's only one of those, because I can't be, sort of, multiply defined. ​There's always the outer tag. We see a series of attributes. Right? 
​So the attributes are key equals and ​then double=quoted string, key equals double=quoted string. ​And if you look at the HTML, you'll see that this is exactly the same as HTML. ​The difference is in HTML you're supposed to have a thing called href= "blah, ​blah, blah", right? ​And so HTML is kind of like XML that's more highly specified. ​Whereas this is just two programs agree on a format and they use it. ​So we have an outer tag that's a complex element. ​And then we have, like ​in that title, you can have sort of things that are in order, like this ingredient. 
​You see some attributes on there, and ​then you have a text block in the middle of here. ​So we'll see in a second how these things all work. And then a sub tag. ​It's like a tree, we'll see that in a second, and a series of steps. ​And so these can be in order, they can be more than one of these things. ​And we can create all kinds of structures that are really designed based on ​the needs of our working two applications that are trying to cooperate. ​So tags are the beginning and the end. 
​Attributes are key-value pairs on the start tag. ​Serialization and deserialization is the act of taking from an internal structure ​in one programming environment, sending it across the network. ​Deserialization is receiving across the network and ​translating it back into an internal structure on the destination computer. ​So there's a couple different ways that we can look at this. ​The most common one, and the word nodes kind of comes from trees. ​Each of these is like a node, because it sort of comes together. ​It's a place of connection, so we call this thing a node. 
​And so you can think of the outer document as the top node of the tree. ​It's kind of an upside-down tree, actually. ​If this was a tree, it'd have a trunk. ​And then we just have stuff like this and a squirrel sitting up here, right? ​But it's kind of an upside-down tree. ​And so we have the top of the tree here and then it has two child nodes, ​the b node and the c node are directly beneath the a node. ​And then we model, ​as you'll see in a bit why, we model the text in between them as a child. 
​So it's a child of the b node, so that's the text is a text node, ​and it is a child of the b node. ​So the b node is all of this, and then this is the child of the b node. ​And the c node has two children, d and e. ​And the d has as child with capital Y and e has a child of capital Y. ​So, these are the simple and complex elements. ​And then there's the text within the elements. ​But, like I said, we model the text as a child of the node, ​as you will soon see, right now. 
​And that's because we model attributes as different children. ​So, if we change this a little bit, and we make this have an attribute, w = "5". ​all of this is part of the b node. ​And the b has the text area, there's only one of those, and ​there could be many attributes right? There could be lots of attributes. ​I just have w="5", and so ​one of the children of the b node is the attribute child or the text child. ​And there can be many of these attribute childs, ​because there could be lots of attributes. ​You know a="4", b="19", they've always got to have double quotes. 
​And so you could have many these attributes and they're sort of children. ​But if you grab the node, and ​you'll see when we start talking about doing this in programming languages. ​We'll see why it's important to kind of understand what ​it means when you grab this versus when you grab that. ​Those aren't the same thing. ​X is the text at the node b, and ​the node b is that text, and attributes, and everything all rolled up together. ​Another way to think about these and ​a way to actually parse XML is through what we call paths. ​In a sense what you do is you just draw the tree and then you walk down the tree. 
​And so this X could be thought of as a piece of data that's at /a/b. ​So you start at the top. ​Go down to a, go down to b, what do you find there? ​If we go down here and go from a to c to d, and find Y, that's this one, /a/c/d. ​So this is like a path. ​And you can think of this like folders on your computer. ​The a folder, then there's two folders within a which are b and c, ​the children folders. 
​And then within c there is children folders d and e. ​And so like this one here is /a/c/e and then say, what's living there at /a/c/e? ​The text that's living at /a/c/e is Z. ​And so that's another way to think about XML. ​Now the thing we're going to talk about next is an important aspect where ​we're trying to decide between two applications. ​If I"m producing data and you're consuming data, ​and you blow up, was it the data's fault, or was it your fault? ​And that's what XML Schema does for us. 