>> When we're looking at like the float statement or the input statement, we see things like, you know, input parenthesis, blah, blah, blah. Parenthesis equals X, right? And so we're going to assign something. The question is, what is this residual value that comes back and within the function, we, as the writer of the function, get to determine what that residual value is by the return statement. So basically, even though this is really a trivial function, has no parameters, the return statement does two things. One, it stops the function and it jumps to that next line, right? But two, it also determines the residual value. 
So by saying return, if we come in here and so we, we do this, then we're in the middle of this print statement. So it sort of pauses here and then it runs this code. And then the return says, this little bit that was the function. Send that back right there. So that means that this is really print hello Glenn, which prints out hello Glenn. And then it goes on to the next line. It runs greet again. 
Runs greet again, comes in here. And so now hello becomes this residual value. Now, it's not very clever, but you get the idea. This residual value, it's like hello Sally. So it prints out hello Sally. So here's a little better example of this where we're using both arguments and a return value. So again, this just remembers it. 
We're going to say greetings, en. So en is lang. Greet is going to run and then runs this here. Now we've returned hello. So this hello becomes this. So hello is the residual value of the function evaluation. And so out comes hello Glenn. 
So now we do this greet es. So we're going to call this code and ES is going to come in as language. And in this case it's going to run this and return Hola. So hola is going to then become this replaces and that says hola, Sally. And so now we're going to do it again. Greet, fr. Greet comes up here. 
We're passing in FR as the language false, true. And then return, return doesn't come out here. Return is done. That's it. You're done at that point. And you also specified the residual value of this little bit. And that's bonjour, Michael. 
By the way, Glenn, Sally and Michael are real people. I always just use names of real people that are actual people. I know. Okay, so now what we're going to do is going to take a look again at that max function, but we're going to understand how the return works. This is really more about the return. So if we take A look at max. So we're going to evaluate the right hand side of this. 
So we have something to send into big. So max, hello world says take this parameter and send it in to max. Here's the max function. Hello world comes into max as some parameter. We don't know what it's named inside max, we really don't care. But it's going to do something, read some stuff, check to see if it's a string or something, and then it's going to loop through a bunch of stuff and figure out what the largest thing is and figure this out. Read through da da da da da da. 
Pick the W as the largest one and then it's going to execute a return statement because it has to pass back the W to us, right? So to communicate out of the function back to the real world, here's our real world. Here it says return W. Now it's probably a variable, but you get the idea. It has to run a return statement and that's the end of execution. It doesn't continue. It doesn't even run a single statement after return. 
But then it sends back to us to replace in this function. I mean, in that original statement, the W then becomes the residual value, and then the W is what goes into big. Now, after a while, you won't need to look at all of this syntax in such detail. I just want you to be able to know every single character and what they mean and slow this down into slow motion. Because after a while you just type this stuff and you won't even think about it. But you need to be able to slow it down to sort of slow motion if you need to. Okay, so you can have more than one parameter, as you might well expect. 
This says, I want two parameters. Again, the name of these things inside here hardly matters, just that's the first parameter, that's the second parameter. In a call we pass in 3 and 5, so that is easy. The number and order of the parameters is the same in the function invocation as it is in the function definition. And we just add these two numbers together, make it local variable, and then return it. So 8 becomes what comes back and gets stuck into X. So more than one parameter, more than one argument, no problem. 
The names of the parameters inside the functions, no big deal. So some functions do not return values. We call them non fruitful functions. And if they return values, then we call them fruitful fun functions. So in summary, this was a pretty quick introduction to functions. Like I said, I don't really expect you to build a bunch of functions, but I want you to understand them. And so when the time comes and you're thinking to yourself, wow, it's time to build a function, you'll know how to build them, and you'll know how to use them. 