>> So now we're going to build some of our own functions. We sort of saw a little bit of that syntax at the very beginning. We're going to explore using the DEF keyword and some of the choices that we get to make. The essence of this, I'll say this probably 20 times. The def statement only defines the function. There's a side effect to it, but it doesn't actually run the code, it just remembers the code. And then later we will call and invoke the function. 
So here's an example of some dysfunctional code that's not going to work very well. We come in here, we Set x equals 5, and you don't have to have the def at the beginning of the program. We do a print statement. So out comes hello and then we do a DEF statement and that cruises through here. And the result is you have extended Python to have this thing called a Print lyrics function. And it's got two bits of code in here. Now this print does a de indent, so that sort of blocks this off as that little bit inside the block is the function. 
That stuff's been copied up to there. And now it continues on and it prints yo and it adds 2 to x and then prints x and out comes a 7. And now the program is done. What happened to these lines of code? The answer is they never executed. They never executed. And that's because the DEF statement doesn't automatically run the code. 
You must invoke. We did not invoke the function. Not sure if that's a happy face or sad face. It's a wry face, it's a wondering what's going on face. So we didn't invoke it, right? We didn't invoke it. And so it did not work and we didn't do any output. 
Now why we did this? I don't know why we did this. Question mark, Question mark. Who knows why we did this, but what we really meant to do probably is something that more looks like the next bit. Once you define it, we got to call it. And that's the reuse part. We had the store part working, but not the reuse part. 
So here we go. This is a little more of a functional bit of code. Set X to 5. Print out. Hello. Out that comes. Define it. 
This creates no output, but the D indent causes this block to be this, to be part of that. And that's sort of been stored store. Now we print out yo and so out comes yo. And then we call Print lyrics again. Print is a Function has parentheses with parameters. This has parentheses with no parameters. We didn't put any parameters in. 
We'll get to that in a second. Print lyrics now says, run this code. So out comes these two print statements, Then we add two to X, print it, and then out comes seven. So this is the store, this is the reuse, this is the call, this is invoke. Okay? Okay. So everything we've shown so far has no arguments, except this max did have an argument that max is input. 
And then we will get something back the W, and then the W gets stuck into big. So arguments are input. So if we want to define arguments in our own functions that we're making, we just put them in the parentheses. Now it's like a variable, we're choosing a variable name. But this variable sort of doesn't exist. This lang variable is best thought of as an alias. It's an alias for whatever the first parameter is going to be when that particular function invocation happens. 
Okay, so we're going to invoke this function three times. We're to going, we're going to put in parentheses three different things. This is a way to have code that's almost the same, but a little bit different, by pushing in different parameters, then the code does something different. And so this really is just a placeholder to say whatever the first parameter was. If that first parameter is es, then print this. If the first parameter is fr, print that. Otherwise print that. 
So as our program runs, this accomplishes nothing, doesn't run any code, but it creates this thing called greet out there. And we've indicated to Python we expect a parameter, we expect that when this is invoked or called, we want one parameter. So then I call greet and again Python remembers to come back to here, and then it fires up to here and starts this line of code. And en language is an alias for en. So it's like lang is not es, lang is not fr. So this code runs out, comes hello, and then we're done. And it says go back to where you remembered you were supposed to pick up next, which is here. 
Okay, so it says pick up next, then it goes on to the next statement here, greet. So it's going to run this function again. Remember where to come back to, which is right here, jump up to here and then make es this time be what lang means now lang is es. So this is true. We run that code, we come out and we print out hola. And then we go back to where we remembered before. Then we continue on, come to this code now we're in this code, it's time to run greet again. 
So we jump up to here, and then this time FR is lang. And so it runs here. That's false. This is true. So it prints that out. Prints out. Bonjour. 
Then it comes and it remembers. Forgot to remember where to come back to. Continues on. Okay, so you see the whole pattern there, a lot of different pretty colors there. But you, you get the idea that it gets run a couple of times and lang is the alias for whatever the first parameter happens to be. And that's the best way to think about it. Whatever the first parameter is, I will use lang within here I'll use lang to refer to the first parameter. 
You might name this thing. Don't do this. But you could name it P1, P1, P1. So the parameter 1. No, Python wouldn't care, but it's really just the first parameter. Lang itself is not really a variable in that there is no piece of memory that lang belongs in. It really sort of is an alias of something else. 