Now what we're going to do is we're going to keep working on this. We're going to do something in the loop, we're going to do something before and something after, and we're going to accomplish different things. The first thing that we're going to accomplish is counting something. Counting the number of things that we are going to be looping through. Now, in this case, it's silly, but just in general, these are called counters. Let's just say that we had, dot, dot, dot, dot, a whole bunch of these things, and we didn't exactly we can look at this and say there are six of them, but that's not the point. The point is, if we have a loop, and in the loop, we want to keep track of how many we've seen, well, you do this counting thing. 
The way it works is, you set a variable to zero. This is the top part. Normally, this would be called count, but I'm going to use a bad non-mnemonic variable called Zork just so you don't get too used to it. So far, how many have we seen? Well, we've seen zero. Then we're going to go, thing is going to be 9, 41, 12. So thing is going to be the iteration variable. 
Each time through the loop, we're going to add one to zork. Increment is another word for this, zork = zork+1. We print out the thing we're looking at, and we print out the current value for zork. The first time through nine, and then that's the first thing we saw, 41, the second. Each time this goes up by one. It doesn't really matter what these things are, but then we run this many times, and when we're done, and we say, loop is all done. There's the end of the block. 
When it's all said and done, there were six things. Now, again, six is obvious. We could just look at it and know that there are six. But this is a way to keep track of the number of times that a loop is executed. You set it to zero at the place, you add one to it, and then you print it out at the end. At the beginning, before it starts, set it to zero, add one each time through, and then print out the count at the end. That's counting. 
The next thing we're going to do is total up a series of values. In this case, we're going to total them up, makes a little more sense now. We're going to have another variable, zork. I would probably call this total. During the loop, it'll be the running total, and at the end of the loop, it will be var total, and so total = 0 before. That's the running total of what we've seen. Now nine comes out, and 0+9 = 9. 
The running total is nine, and nine was what we looked at. Then 41 comes in. Then we take 9+41. The running total is 50. We read 41, go back up, 12 comes in. 50+12 = 62. We have that's our running total. 
Next time we get three, 62+3 = 65. That's this line prints out. Then we get 74, so 65+74 =139. That's the running total. We go and do the last one, 15, 139+15 = 154. We print that out, and now it goes back up, but the for loop is done, so out we come. At the end, when it's all said and done, this running total becomes var total, 154. 
Certainly wouldn't even print all this stuff out. You wouldn't print that out. But at the end, if you do this, and so the difference between the count and the total, is instead of adding one here, you add the thing you're running that you're totaling up. That's how we compute totals. Of course, we can do this with an average. Now we're going to have a counter, which we set to zero, a running total, which we set to zero and the variable sum. We're going to print out 0, 0, so the count and the total is zero. We run through. 
Each time through we add one, so it's going to be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, each time through. Then we have the sum = sum+value, so 9, 50, 62, 65, 139, 54. This is the running total. This is the count. Actually, that's the sum, in this case, the sum variable. Then this is the thing that we were reading in. Then we finally get done because there was only six things. 
The for loop dumps us out. Then we got, oh, how many do we get? We got six. What was the total? It was 154, and then divide sum by count, and that should be 25.0. We divide sum by count, and now we have calculated the average. Actually, this should be 154/6, I think that should be 25.6666 or something like that. 
You get the idea. You sum, and so you can do more than one of these things in a particular loop. Now, filtering is the idea that we're looking for something that meets some criteria. We're going to go through and look at all the things in the loop. We're trying to figure out if something is greater than 20, and we're going to declare that large number. This is how you put an if in the loop. Sometimes this loop will do nothing. 
Sometimes this loop will print out large number, and so value is going to be nine, and that's false, so it doesn't do anything. Value's 41, that's true, so it prints out this. Value's 12, so it does nothing. Value's three, it does nothing, value's 74, and so it prints this out, value's 15, so that's false. It's done. Now the for loop knows, Oh, we're done, go on to the next line. This is a filtering pattern where, we're going to do some if statement and conditionally run some code based on the value that we're looking at for now. 
That's like searching for large numbers in our long list of numbers. Sometimes, instead of printing something out in the middle of the loop, just like in functions, we don't often print in functions. We tend to prefer using return values. Sometimes we just want a variable that tells us whether something was found or not. We're going to use a Boolean variable. Boolean is another type of a variable. You've got integer variables, you got string variables, you got floating point variables. 
Boolean is another variable. Boolean is a variable that either has the value true or false. That's it. It can only have two. False is a constant in Python, and so we're going to say found, found as a mnemonic variable. I use the word found for this all the time, but don't get stuck on it. It just happens to be variable with the value false. 
We print it out before it's false. Now we're going to go through each of these values again, and we're looking for three. We want to know did we find three or not. We have nine, and it stays false. We have 41, it stays false. We have 12 stays false. Now we have three, this all of a sudden clicks to true. 
Then we change the variable found, which is the same found here, to be true. This time when we come through three, we run this code, then we print this, and it's true. Now it's 74, this is false, but we've changed the variable for found, so it doesn't change back to false. We run the rest of the loop, and when we're done, true. At some level, if you didn't print all this stuff out, before, after that means we found a three. There could be a million times that we ran this, and all we know when we're done is there was a three in there. That's what it's saying. Found starts out false. 
It loops and loops and loops and loops, and if it ever finds it, then found becomes true. Then we can detect at the bottom of the loop, yes, we found it. Yes, that happened. No matter how many numbers we looked at, one of them, at one point, at least one of them was a three. Now, if we were a little tricky, we would realize that we could put a brake right here. Right there, because once it's true, it's not going to go back to false, so we could stop. 