​So now we're going to talk about a new serialization format. ​We've talked about XML, which is kind of complex. ​And there's a simple one is JSON and it's increasingly popular to the point ​where it's entirely possible you might go a whole career and not really run into XML. ​XML is not necessarily bad, ​it's just very powerful and more powerful than we need in simple situations. ​And so here's one of the videos that I that I'll show you. ​It's a video of a fellow named Douglas Crockford and he's credited with discovering JSON. ​JSON really is not a new format. 
​JSON was invented by the constant syntax, ​the literal notation for constants in JavaScript for ​both arrays of variable constants, values, and objects. ​And that's what it is. And so he makes it really clear that he ​just noticed that this could be a way for us to serialize data. ​So when I talked about serialization, ​I talked about how we're not going to use the Python syntax, ​we're not going to use the Java syntax, ​we're going to use XML in the middle. ​But what happens in JSON is we're not going use the Python syntax, ​we're not going use the Java syntax, ​but we are going to use the JavaScript syntax in the middle. ​So JSON is very native to JavaScript. ​And interestingly, because so many things are being built in browsers these days, ​JavaScript is becoming an increasingly interesting language. 
​And so JSON's popularity is not driven so much because of JavaScript, ​but it certainly doesn't hurt to have JavaScript become increasingly ​increasingly popular and JSON coming along with it. ​So Douglas Crockford is an interesting fellow. ​He's got sort of a dry sense of humor ​and I encourage you to watch the interview that I did with Douglas Crockford. ​As part of the dry sense of humor, ​you can see two books here written from O'Reilly. ​One is the JavaScript Definitive Guide ​and then there is another book that's almost a joke, which is ​I mean, it's a very good book called JavaScript: The Good Parts. ​And the thickness of the parts of JavaScript that are there that are not the good parts, ​as Crockford would say, and so this is a Crockford book. ​And so this is just kind of Crockford's wry sense of ​humor that, about what he thinks about JavaScript. 
​Now Crockford would say, and I would agree, that ​the good parts of JavaScript make it a really great programming language, ​you just have to be careful not to do the stuff ​that he considers the "not such good parts" of JavaScript. ​And so Crockford basically established JSON as a standard sort of by fiat, ​he didn't ask anybody's permission and he registered json.org ​and put a couple of documents up that said this is what JSON is. ​And it's kind of taken the world by storm. ​The last few years, like I say, ​because of so much data is being moved between the browsers and back ends and JSON ​is pretty much the serialization format that's being used there. ​XML is still used in some situations. ​And so here is the similar kind of ​problem that we solved except we're going to use JSON now. ​And so just like in all of Python, we import something. 
​We import the JSON library. ​We're going to use the triple-quoted string again. ​And again, we're not going to pull this data. ​Normally, we'd pull this data from the Internet with urllib, ​or open it into a file, or whatever. ​And it starts with a curly brace. ​We'll see another syntax where it starts with a square brace. ​Curly brace is like a dictionary, right? 
​And it's kind of like a dictionary. ​In JavaScript, ​it's called an object, ​but it's very much like a Python dictionary in that we have key-value pairs, ​there is a series of keys, ​a key followed by a colon; ​the keys are strings, the values are can be anything, ​not just a string - phone. ​And now here, we have a dictionary within a dictionary. ​So this is the phone keyword in the outer one, ​phone, email. and name are in the outer one. ​And then there's a child dictionary here that starts ​from here to here and it has two things, ​one is type and one is number. ​And then this one has a child that has hide as yes. ​And you could think of this as a tree as well, ​if you really wanted to. 
​You know, we could have this outer thing which has a name, ​a phone. and email. ​And under phone, we have type and number. ​Sorry, I have to make these long. ​And then we have hide. Right? ​Now, one of the things that's different between ​JSON is there's no start tag and there's no end tag and there's no attributes. ​And so this I'm kind of cheating and making this attribute and moving it down. 
​And there's no text area. ​So it's got some different things that are sort of different nature than XML. ​But it has some things that we absolutely love. ​And that is. so we have this blob of text that ​we got from somewhere and we're going to pass it in. ​This loads stands for load from string. ​So use the JSON library method or function loads ​from the JSON library and that does all the parsing and looks all these things up. ​This might blow up, it might give you traceback if there's a syntax error, ​like you forgot that quote or something like, so you get a traceback here. 
​Or not, assuming it all works well. ​And in this particular example, it's going to work well. ​We get back an object that sort of represents, ​internally, all of this data. ​Now the interesting thing is the thing we get back is really a Python dictionary. ​So this ends up being ​a type Python dictionary as if you built this Python dictionary with name, ​phone, and email as keywords and then the values are Chuck. ​And then another dictionary and another dictionary. ​Okay. And so info is a dictionary. 
​So when we talk to this dictionary, ​we just use the brackets syntax sub name. ​If we print that out, if we do info sub name, it is this. ​So there's no, like, ​pull out the text thing, do a get, ​find it. There is a dictionary and it's got a key named name. ​And that's what you get back. ​If we are going to go find this hide, ​we go get info sub email, ​which is a dictionary, which is then gives us back this thing right here, ​which is also a dictionary. ​And so then we say sub hide within that and that pulls out ​the yes to print it out. 
​So this is one of the things that works really well with JSON, ​is because its structure is more like ​the kinds of structures that we have of lists and dictionaries. ​And every programming language has something that's ​roughly equivalent to a list and roughly equivalent to a dictionary. ​And so what happens is is that this JSON is not as rich a representation as XML, ​but because it's simple and it maps directly ​onto the internal structures that we have in all these languages, ​it's a lot easier to use. ​And it's not as rich, ​but in its simplicity, ​it makes it so much easier to use. ​And so if you just compare this to ​the previous XML example with the gets and the dot text and like, ​what am I doing here, ​this is a lot more direct. ​You look at it, you write this stuff and you're done with it. ​Here is an example of a list. 
​So we've got lists and dictionaries and they can be nested in any way you want. ​So what we have here is our JSON starts here ​and ends here. Because it's a square bracket, it's a list. ​And so that is a list. ​In this case, it's two items. ​And this is a dictionary. ​And this is a dictionary. 
​So we end up with dictionary and dictionary. ​We end up with a list of two dictionaries. ​And so when we take this and run it through loads, ​assuming that there's no syntax errors, ​we get back a info is a list. ​It's not an object, it's a list. ​And we can say because it's a list, ​we can ask how many are there and that'll be there's going to be two things in there. ​And then we can write a for loop we can write a for ​loop that has the stuff in here and the stuff in there. ​item is going to iterate through those two things, ​which it's going to iterate through here and then it's going to iterate through that. ​This is going to be a dictionary and this is going to be a dictionary. 
​So this loop is going to run twice, loop's going to run twice, ​once with this as item, ​which is a dictionary, and the next time with that as item as a dictionary. ​And then inside the loop so item points to this and we say item sub name. ​well, items sub name is just this Chuck. ​And then item sub id is 0.01. ​And item sub x is 2. ​And again, if you look back at the XML, ​it does the same thing. ​You see, it's just a lot more complex. ​Right? A lot more complex. 
​JSON is simpler, so the code we write to work with ​JSON is simpler and that's why a lot of people like it. ​A lot of people would say, ​you know, what you should do is if you can use JSON, ​you probably should use JSON, ​but if you have something more complex, ​you might want to use XML. ​But these days, there's sort of a strong movement towards JSON. ​And so that gives us a summary of how JSON works. ​And now, we're going to talk move up a little ​bit and talk about the Service Oriented Approach. 