​So, in this video, we're going to talk a little bit about ​how to use the developer console in your browser. ​Really in this course, we're writing Python programs to talk to the Internet, ​but sometimes you want to debug how a page is really working. ​The Telnet program is a less and less Operating Systems, ​they took it out of the Macintosh, ​it's still there in Linux. ​So, I want to tell you how to use this developer console to ​find out various things about your request response cycle. ​So, let's take a look here at this page. ​So, this is our page1.htm, ​and we've looked at this a lot of different ways, ​whether it be Telnet or in a Python program, ​and now I'm just going to type it in on a browser, ​and then we're going to tear apart what's going on. ​So, I did this in View, ​Developer, Console, and under the Network tab, ​and then I refresh the page. 
​So, what this is doing is showing each of the requests, ​and the request-response cycle. ​So page1.htm is the document. ​Remember, we talked about that. ​There is the protocol, ​the server, and the document. ​Page one is the document. ​So, if I click on this, ​then I get to see all kinds of things. ​So, the preview, that's the HTML as it's rendered. 
​But the more interesting thing is the get request, the headers. ​So, remember, it does a request. ​In this case, it's a get, right? ​Then it gets a response, and the 200, ​and if you look at all the little things I had in the other lectures, ​you'll see these 200 are coming out. ​You see the IP address of where it's going to, ​and then the response headers, cache control, ​and I actually have an assignment where you're supposed to ​read some of these things and type them in. ​You'll get these exact same headers either in ​Python or with Telnet or with the developer console. ​So, in that assignment, you can do it any way that you want. 
​So, like the ETag or the Content-Type, ​that says this is an HTML page. ​That tells it when it gets the actual response. ​The actual response is like that less thans and greater thans, ​that's HTML, but says format this with HTML. ​So, the request headers, ​I wish they put these in a different order because ​the browser makes the connection to port 80, ​and then it sends the request on port 80, ​then it sends the request headers on port 80, ​and then it waits for the response. ​Right? So, these are the things. ​It's telling it various things like accept language, ​for example, says that I prefer English. 
​If you can have multiple languages, ​and you can have a priority for them, ​so it's like English is my primary language and Spanish might be my secondary language. ​The browser is doing this, ​sending this information to the server on every request. ​So, that's how some webpages know that they ​should render themselves in Spanish if you're a Spanish-speaking student. ​So, that's the request, ​and then the response is this HTML, ​and that's literally what came back from the server and then it shows up as this. ​So, the way it's rendered is this H1 turns it into text, et cetera. ​So, that's what it is. You see the request response cycle. 
​So, I'll go back to get rid of this. ​So, I'm going to clear this and I'm going to hit "Refresh", ​and that's going to trigger another get request and there you go. ​You look at Headers, Preview, ​Response, et cetera, and Timing. ​So, that's the basic idea. ​So, I want to show you a couple of other things about this request-response cycle. ​You can stop watching now if you wanted to, ​but I want to show you a few other things that ​actually come from my other specialization, ​web applications for everybody. ​So, this is a guessing game that I wrote, ​and you're supposed to guess a number, ​and if you've taken this class long enough, ​you know what the number is that will be the correct answer, ​because it's always the right answer. 
​So, I want to show you the idea of putting parameters on the URL. ​So, I can put a parameter, Guess equals 12. ​So,I put a question mark, ​and you'll see URLs. ​If you're using Google Maps or whatever, you'll see these question marks. ​These are parameters that go on in addition to the URL. ​So, here we have the URL is this, ​and then there's perimeters that being sent to ​this interactive application on the server. ​So, if we take a look at what happened, ​we do a get request, ​and if I look at the headers, ​it sent in this whole URL, ​the document to retrieve. 
​Question mark guess equals one, ​web applications after the question mark, ​see these as key value pairs for the parameters. ​It comes like a little dictionary. ​So, if we look here, ​that's what the URL was, ​we did a get request to that, ​that was the IP address that we connected to, got a 200, ​the response headers, we see that it's content type text HTML. ​The request headers again, ​these are the ones we are sending in. ​There's a path and the scheme and all these other things, ​and then there's query string parameters. ​So, these parameters that are sitting there at the end ​are called get parameters or query string parameters, ​and you can put more than one in although this application doesn't care. ​I could put ampersand X equals 14 ampersand, ​ABC equals 22, and then all those W3 key value pairs that are being sent. 
​So, if we take a look, that's the URL that it hits. ​But as it's perceived inside of the server, ​it sees that there are three variables that have been sent in at the end of this URL, ​so that's another thing that you're going to see. ​Again, you don't need it for this class, ​but as we talk about the request response cycle, ​sometimes there's other information. ​Now I want to show you one last little example. ​I'm going to show you how the status code can change. ​So, in this case, the 200 means I ask for a document, ​the 200 says here's your document. ​But 200 is not the only one. 
​Let's do another one. ​Let's do this one, let's see if it works. ​We'll see what happens here. ​Go to a bad URL, ​this one might be one that you know. ​Okay. So, let's go to the very first one. ​See this one? 404. It did it right. 
​So, if I click at this, ​and I want to get this URL, ​Zap is not there and the answer the server gave is not 200. ​200 would mean you're good, here's your document. ​404 means not found, 404 not found. ​That's kind of another mean, ​just like 42 is the mean, ​so that's 404 not found. ​So, that's in the response, ​so that's part of the response headers. ​The status is 404, ​and the other ones that said it should the 200. ​So, those are two status. ​200 means good, 404 means not found. ​Now, I want to show you one more status. ​So, what this does is, ​this is an application that does what's called a redirect. 
​If I do a get request and then the server says, ​You know, you're at the wrong page. ​I'd like to bounce you over to this other page". ​It sends me back a response. ​It's a 302, and it says, ​"Hey, redirect to this other page." ​302 means you're at the wrong place, ​and then it gives me back a URL which is the right place. ​So, I'm going to say two here, ​and we'll see what happens. ​I'm going to ask the server for a page, ​and it's going to send me back a page, ​and then my browser's going to grab the next page. ​So, I'm going to ask for it. 
​So, I went after reader1.php, ​and you'll notice I got nothing back on this particular one. ​So, there's two, here's the second one, here's the first one. ​If I look at the headers, ​I did a post request which is like get is a different request to this thing. ​I sent the number two, ​I type number two in there, ​and then I got back a 302. ​302 means I did not give you a document. ​What I actually gave you is location header, ​which is you're at the wrong place, ​this is the right place, ​reader2.php is the right place. ​So, your browser receives this 302, ​and then immediately goes and does a get request on the URL it was redirected to, ​so this is the redirected URL. ​Okay. So, that was a get request and now I actually ​have a real response and the previews, et cetera. 
​So, that gives you the basic idea of how the request response cycle. ​I click on page two, ​and then I do a get and it's okay. ​So, that gives you a basic idea of the request response cycle, ​and how you can look at those headers and see ​the interaction between your browser and it's server, ​how status responses work, how the output. ​Let me show you one more thing. ​Here's some files. ​I'll click on cover3.jpg, ​I'll clear this out first just so it's a little prettier. ​Cover3.jpg, watch this. 
​So, that's the cover to the textbook. ​Now, if I look at this, ​I can see some things. ​I did a get request to that. ​JPG is a picture. ​I got get request. ​I got a 200 okay which means you asked for something and I gave it to you, ​and everything else is the same, ​but the thing that's different here is the content type, image/jpeg. ​So, that means that the response, ​we can't see it, it's a bunch of little numbers. 
​The numbers themselves are that picture. ​But the browser knows that it's a picture ​because it's been told it's a picture with this Content-Type header. ​So, that's one of the things these headers do. ​If you recall, headers come out first, ​then the data comes out second. ​So, I can look at the header, ​say, "This I'm supposed to interpret a certain way." ​I can show you one more, romeo.txt. ​Okay. So, if I look at this, ​romeo.txt is another document. 
​I got a 200, it's a text. ​But you'll see that this is text/plane. ​The other one we said was text/html. ​So, the metadata in those headers tells the browser how to ​interpret the body of the response document when it comes back. ​Okay. So, with that, I'll let you go. ​This is something very useful whether you're ​a web application developer or whether you're playing with APIs, ​to be able to go into this console and ​find your way around and figure out what's happening. 
​Just because there's only one down here doesn't mean that there's not a lot. ​There could be like 40 or 50, ​and you notice I had to scroll up and down to find that 404 not found. ​So, hope you found this useful. 