​Now we're going to stop talking ​about application program interfaces, ​or APIs, in a generic context, ​and we're going to get real. ​There are lots and lots of ​API's and there are organizations that put up API's, ​they sell access to the API's. ​APi's are a very valuable commodity. ​Often you need an account to access an API. ​We're going to use an open source, ​open content, open database, open street map. ​And open street Map is like ​the free and open version of ​Google Maps that's maintained ​by people all around the world. ​It's the concept of open. 
​But even for open street map data, ​even though the data is free, ​you need an account to access ​this particular API because ​we don't want to put up our own API. ​We could grab the data and ​update the data and run our own server. ​Too much work, but you ​can talk to this API in your applications, ​but there's a free level of requests, ​you got to make an account, ​and then you get a free level of requests. ​And then you can also pay above that rate of usage. ​But for this class you're ​not going to have to spend any money. ​And I'll show you that how ​I've made that trick happen at the end. ​This is called Geo API 5 ​and this is a location platform, ​and if you look closely, it's just ​geocoding of various things. 
​The example we're going to do is we're going to take ​a text address like Ann Arbor, ​Michigan, and we're going to look at where it's at. ​Then that's called geocoding, ​which is you're looking things up. ​It's a common thing to do. I did ​it when I first built this class. ​I had some data, ​You would enter it into a Google form where ​your city was and I just ​put it on a map. It was beautiful. ​I mean, it's so fun to put stuff on a map, ​and so that's called address lookup ​and that's called the geocoding API. 
​There's a reverse geocoding API, ​where you say like here is a location, ​what's there, and there's a whole bunch of things. ​This is an API, very valuable API. ​The one we're going to play with is ​the forward geocoding API. ​Like I said, it takes an address ​and it looks that address ​up and finds where it is in ​the world from the biggest thing ​that comes out is GPS coordinates. ​Then we'll see later, ​we'll make a map, we'll put the stuff on a map, etc. ​For now, we're just going to talk to this API in Python. ​Basically, the idea here ​is they've got a playground and you can ​use this for free and you can use ​this as much as you like basically, ​where I've typed in an address and I had it ​looked up and it shows you ​the data and it shows you the other stuff. 
​This is a playground and you can ​just play with this. It's a lot of fun. ​Now, this is the pricing that ​basically tells you how many, ​and this could change by the time you're looking at it. ​They get tired of free pricing ​and they want to change the numbers or whatever. ​But we're not going to actually have you ​in this class talk to this API directly. ​You're not even going to have to get an account, ​but you do need an API key ​and it's really easy to get one. ​All they really want in this particular thing, ​for this API key, ​if you're just using it at the free level, ​they still want to know who you ​are because they're going to track your usage. 
​If you don't have an account, ​they can't track your usage, ​and so you have an account, they're tracking your usage. ​If you're doing whatever more than 100 per day, ​then they'll shut you off. ​It's a way to keep ​the free thing free by having an account. ​Again, I'm not going to ask you to do this. ​The reason is is I've built a system that ​specifically makes it so that ​you don't have to talk to geoAPIfi. ​I have built a proxy server, ​and you'll see in the code it's called Pi3 data. ​What I've done is I've created an account on ​geo API and I've ​encoded my account inside the server Pi for data. 
​When you make a request, ​you talk to my server without a password, ​and then I talk to geo API with a password. ​Now I have a rate limit myself, ​but what I've done is I use this thing called Cloudflare, ​which is what's called edge caching. ​No matter where in the world, ​if you ask for the same data, once you've asked for it, ​once Cloudflare keeps a copy of ​it and it keeps ​a copy in servers ​that are scattered all around the world, ​your code is really talking to Cloudflare. ​When Cloudflare has a cache miss, ​Cloudflare talks to Pi for data. ​Pi for data has an extensive cache. ​And when pie data has a cache miss, ​it goes to geo API. ​The bottom line is that I make it so ​that you can do things really fast with no account, ​and rarely do I actually ever talk to geo API. 
​The only time I do talk to geo API ​is when you're asking for ​something that hasn't been asked for before. ​Then if you do that, I have my own rate limits and ​so at some point it'll just ​shut you down or slow you down or tell you to. ​One of the things that it does ​when I have a cache miss in ​Pi free data is I make it really slow, so don't worry. ​Most of the time when you're running your applications, ​you are talking and you're ​getting data that's already been cached on Cloudflare, ​which is free infinitely. ​Infinite bandwidth for free, which is amazing. ​The point is, is sometimes with API's, ​I'm jumping through a bunch of hoops and I wrote ​a bunch of software just to ​avoid you hitting rate limits on the geo API data. ​You can just type this URL into ​the browser or HTTP, probably HTTPS. 
​Buy free data, Chuck Net data. ​This Q equals, that's a query parameter. ​If you type that, ​you get this data, ​and this data tells you where Ann Arbor is. It's Json. ​We've talked about Json, ​and the outer curly brace is an object. ​Then we have features which is an array of features. ​Generally the sub zero feature ​is the one that's interesting, ​and so if we go into features sub zero, ​and then we go into the lawn and L, O, ​N, and LAT, we see ​the longitude and latitude of Ann Arbor, ​Michigan, and we see other things. 
​Maybe if you mistyped Ann Arbor, ​Michigan, if I had ​AN with an E at the end of it, it might say, ​well you really meant Ann Arbor, Michigan, ​and then you can see like that formatted says, oh, ​that's the real place you're getting in case ​you might have made a typographical error. ​It tells you what county it's in, ​what country it's in, etc. ​That's just you and a browser. ​Now, you and Python can do the same thing as ​we've been talking all along with like requests, ​and so I have this service URL, ​and that's the service URL with ​a little question mark that says it's ​a query parameter and ​I'm going to ask for a location, Ann Arbor, Michigan. ​You can see that's what I typed in, ​and it's a four loop, ​so you can type over and over and over again. ​Then it cleans up the data, ​and then it creates the Q parameter, Q equals address. ​Then it adds with URL encoding, ​that's where little percents happens. 
​You get these percents like percent 2C, ​that is URL encoding for a comma and a space. ​That's the rules of URL's, URL encoding. ​It retrieves it, then it reads the data with a decode. ​If you recall, the read ​gets you the raw data and the decode says, ​I mean this to be UTF 8. ​The data internally is just a Python string. ​I have a print statement that prints out how much data we ​got and the first 20 characters of said data. ​You can see that in the output as well. 
​Then I do a Json parse with Json, ​loads that data is just a string, ​then the Json is basically a dictionary on a list. ​That goes back to that in the previous slide. ​It shows all of that data ​in curly braces and square braces. ​Then this next line, ​lat equals JS features sub zero sub properties sub lat. ​That's basically working through ​a hierarchical set of dictionaries and lists. ​Whenever I'm writing code like this, ​it takes me a little while. ​I'll print out JS and then I'll print out JS of features, ​and then I'll print out JS of features sub zero. 
​Then I might say, ​I might mistakenly add lat after zero, ​and it'll be like, that's not there. ​I'm like, oh wait, I got to do properties sub lat. ​This is a little tricky to get working ​and if you have to do it yourself, ​you have to have the Json on ​one screen and type in ​the Python over and over and over again. ​And eventually you figure out, okay, ​that's the magic string to extract the latitude out ​of this particular return value from this particular API. ​I also print out ​the location I go into that formatted field. ​And again, writing these last four lines ​of code takes a little bit of effort, ​but it's not all that bad. ​In summary, in this whole chapter, ​we've talked about service oriented architecture. 
​How we break applications into ​parts and distribute them across the network. ​The API is like a contract. ​We've got web services that are various ways. ​We have XML and Soap and Rest, ​which is Rest in Json. ​Pretty much the modern way of doing things. ​Soap and XML are a non modern way. ​I just include it ​because someday you're going to have to talk to XML. 
​And you might say, why isn't it rest? ​Like we talked about before, ​there's reasons to use XML. ​Xml has certain advantages and ​we've talked about two serialization formats, ​XML, and Json. Cheers. 