​Now, we want to talk about how we place the database and ​the database software in relative to ​the other aspects of the ​programming environment that we're going to build. ​We'll talk both about large projects and small projects. ​A large project would be a website. ​Maybe you build a website to track ​comic books or something and ​you store all the data in database. ​We're not going to do it so much in this class, ​but I figure it's time now that ​we're learning about databases to ​give you a sense of how ​they're used in these online systems. ​Maybe in a future course, ​you'll see how they're used and learn how to do ​this in large projects. ​But there are generally two roles. 
​One is the person who writes the application and produces ​the user interface for the application ​and for the website, ​and then there's the other that actually ​monitors and adjusts the database. ​That person is the database administrator. ​Often, in a large project, ​you will get some advice as ​an application developer from a database administrator. ​The idea is the database tuning ​and monitoring is a somewhat specialized job. ​In a professional environment like the open source ​learning management system that I work on named Sakai, ​in production, I don't get as a developer. ​That's who I am. This is me. 
​I'm a developer. I write cool code. ​I make really neat widgets for the end user, ​and this is the end user in a web browser, ​talking to my cool thing, and I ​add a little button and stuff like that. ​I write code that actually talks to the database server, ​which is both code plus the data storage itself. ​I write code that talks SQL to ​the database server and gets data ​back and then formats it for the end user. ​That's what developers do. ​They are the ones that create application software. 
​The database administrator. Generally, ​we don't let the developer talk to ​the production database directly ​because we're afraid the developer will break it. ​That's probably because there's been ​a lot of experience where developers broke it. ​We have a special person ​called the database administrator, ​and they're the ones that are ​allowed to talk to the database. ​Now, because the database is both storage and software, ​it can take SQL queries from many different sources, ​both the application or database tools. ​The database administrator has ​a direct way to talk to the database and get data back. ​If something's going wrong, ​like it's gotten really large, what's going on? 
​The database administrator will start ​running commands straight to the database, ​whereas the developer generally ​has no access to the real database. ​Eventually, we can write a new version ​of the application software. ​That's the split between the roles between ​developer and database administrator in large projects. ​The database administrator does all that, ​helps with the design and implementation. ​Often, a database administrator is ​shared across a number of software projects. ​But that's not exactly what we're going to do. ​It'd be nice, and maybe you have a job. 
​Maybe you do have a job that there's ​a database administrator, ​and it'll look like that. ​But right now, during this class, ​we've met the database administrator ​and the application developer, and they're both you. ​They're both you or me. ​What's going to happen now is you get to do both roles. ​Later, if you have somebody to help you with it, ​you might turn more into the developer side or more into ​the database administrator side. That's perfectly fine. ​We still have a database system. 
​That's got both the logic, ​the software that makes the database smart, ​and the data itself. We talked to it. ​The program we're going to use ​initially right now is we're going to ​study the DBA way of doing business. ​You're going to write SQL. ​You're going to talk to this little piece of ​software that's going to submit stuff directly. ​You are going to act as a database administrator. ​We're going to create tables, put data in them, ​and we're just going to type stuff in to ​this application called SQLite Browser. 
​There are other of these applications that ​are database administrator applications. ​Much later, ​we are going to start writing Python programs. ​In those programs, we're going to talk to ​the same database files using SQL. ​We're not going to write programs ​that have a web interface. ​That would be like Twitter ​or comicbookregistry.com or whatever. ​We're going to have various sources of input, ​sometimes files, sometimes network. ​We're going to write programs that ​read this stuff and clean it up. 
​Often, there's a cleaning step, ​and then we are going to write the data into a database. ​We're going to grow this data, fill it up, ​and then we'll be done with this phase of acquiring data, ​and all our data will be sitting in a database. ​Then we will write another Python program ​to read this data and maybe make a pretty file. ​Even later in the class, ​we will be visualizing ​that or sending it to various other places. ​You might send it to R to do statistical analysis, ​or Excel to do some simple analysis or visualization, ​or we'll use JavaScript to make ​pretty pictures and spinning things and whatever. ​The basic pattern here is, it's the same. ​We're going to have apps and then we're going ​to have DBA, but they're both you. 
​The thing we're going to focus on first is right here. ​The database we're going to use ​is a thing called SQLite, ​and the software we're going to use is what I told ​you to install right at beginning a while ago. ​Hopefully, you've done that, SQLite Browser, ​because otherwise you can't talk to the database ​unless you have something equivalent ​to this, and they do exist. ​But the basic pattern is read data, clean it up, ​stick it in the database in a sensible and organized way, ​and then write other applications to ​make sense of it and analyze the data. ​That's what we're going to be doing coming up. ​When we build this data, ​I mentioned the word schema. ​That we come up with a contract for ​exactly the way the data is supposed to look, ​and with this contract, ​the database software can make the best use of itself. 
​It can make good use of the disk drive. ​It can make good use of all these other things. ​We call this the database model, ​and it's best thought of as a contract. ​We're going to talk into this file. ​There's going to be magic things that are stored in here. ​We use this database software, ​and the schema is our way to inform the database ​how we're going to use ​the data and let the database figure ​out the way to plate it, where to put it. ​I'll put this thing over here. 
​I'll put another thing over here, ​and I'll put a little shortcut ​over here. We don't care about that. ​We say this is the data model we're going to work with, ​and you the database code are supposed to be ​really smart and figure ​out how to make the most sense of that. ​The data model is not just the SQL to query it, ​but the data model is our contract about ​the shape of what ​we're going to store and retrieve in our database. ​There's a number of common database systems. ​I've mentioned several of them. ​Oracle is awesome. 
​It's a company that was effectively ​created just to make a database system. ​They were founded at the birth of the relational movement ​and one because they were very good at it. ​Others who didn't win were like IBM and others, ​although they all have relational databases as well. ​Well, I don't ​know if letting Oracle win is the right word. ​Those vendors that Oracle ​outcompeted were the ones that ​didn't embrace this relational stuff. ​Because, I was in college when NASA was coming down, ​and some of us were like, ​relational, too much math. ​e me the quick, dirty stuff. ​It took a while to the relational model really to win. 
​But when it won, it won big time. ​Oracle was a company that made a bet on it winning. ​By the time we all realized, whoa, ​it's a good idea because ​we all thought it was a bad idea, ​or at least I did. It was too late. ​Oracle had the best implementation of ​the good idea that we all ​finally realized was a good idea, ​and so Oracle wins. ​Then what happens is, ​Oracle is the old dog in the marketplace, ​the very expensive, commercial, ​a lot of people think it's simply the best. ​But there's alternatives that are quite nice. 
​There's MySQL, which is a open source. ​MySQL has been purchased by Oracle, ​but continues to be open source. ​If you really want to be open source, ​there's a MySQL, MariaDB. ​It starts with an M on purpose so ​that it starts with the same letter as that. ​MariaDB is a copy of the open source version of MySQL, ​which was made at the moment that MySQL was purchased. ​But MySQL remains open source. ​A lot of people who use MySQL are switching to Maria, ​but a lot of people just keep using MySQL. 
​If Oracle does something bad with MySQL, ​we'll all switch to Maria, ​and that'll be the end of that. ​At that point, Oracle hasn't done ​anything really bad with MySQL, and so it's okay. ​We tend to use MySQL for online websites, ​a lot of websites, stuff. ​Oracle tends to be used for enterprise things. ​Then another one that's very popular is SQL Server. ​It's the Microsoft one. ​You may have even used Microsoft Access, ​and you might have even done a screen where you're ​dropping things down that turn out to be ​SQL under the covers. Don't know. 
​SQL Server for Microsoft is a very good product. ​Some enterprise organizations are all Microsoft, ​and so they use SQL Server. Don't feel bad. ​Pretty much everything I'm going to talk about applies ​equally to SQL because SQL ​is a standard, and that's nice. ​There's another one called Postgres. ​It's also open source. ​That's very nice, and it's more of ​an imitation of Oracle than MySQL. 
​MySQL is designed to be simpler and ​faster and solve less problems than Oracle, ​but do them super fast. ​That's why it's often very popular in websites. ​Postgres is more of ​a rich database that's ​very much a direct competitor of Oracle. ​MySQL is its own world. ​We're not going to use any of these. ​If you go take a web class, ​you will probably use MySQL, ​and everything I'm going to teach you in ​this class is useful there. ​All the knowledge, all the SQL. 
​But we're going to use a thing called SQLite. ​Lite meaning little, tiny, not very heavy. ​SQLite is what's called an embedded database. ​MySQL or Oracle are whole pieces of ​separate software that we ​talk across a network connection to, ​but SQLite is actually part of software. ​It's built-in. Your car, ​if it's a reasonably modern car, ​probably has five copies of SQLite in it. ​Your car has SQLite. 
​If you have a fancy music player in your car, ​it probably is using it. ​If you have an iPhone, ​it probably has 30 copies of SQLite in it. ​Because SQLite is designed to be really small, ​so small that you actually don't have to separate it, ​you just build it into the application. ​The thing that matters most to ​us is that it's built into Python. ​It's already there in Python. That's super awesome. ​It's fast and aimed at smaller amounts of data. 
​But because in Python, we're doing data analysis, ​we will make good use of SQLite, ​and the fact that it's built in just ​makes our life really simple. ​We don't have to install a bunch of software. ​Python has it with nothing more than an import statement. ​You know how this story goes. ​If you're in Python and you got to get something done, ​the first thing you do is figure out ​what import statement you need. ​That gives us a sense ​of the SQL applications that we'll be using. ​Up next, we're really going to start writing some SQL, ​make a database, and put ​some tables in and put some data in those tables. 