​Welcome to Chapter 10. ​We're going to talk about tuples, and in a way, you kind of already know tuples. ​Tuples are a limited version of lists, and the sum total of this is that, ​tuples are sort of a more efficient version of lists that you can't modify. ​So they're really unmodifiable lists. ​So here's just the syntax of tuples, but it exactly looks like lists, ​except we're going to use parentheses. ​So here is a three tuple. ​The concept of tuple, the word tuple comes from mathematics. ​2 tuples, 3 tuples. 
​A 2 tuple is a thing that has two things. ​It's a way to call it so 3 tuples. ​It's a set of three things basically. ​So this is a 3 tuple with three strings in it. ​Again, it looks exactly like a list, except using parentheses. ​We use the index operator x sub 2. ​We can use the constant syntax. 
​We assign these things in, ​and the printout just prints it out the constant syntax. ​And it just has no square braces, but instead parentheses. ​Things like max, use tuples. ​It looks through a sequence of things. ​Lists is a sequence, tuples are a sequence, a string is a sequence. ​And so max looks through them, and the for loop basically creates the duration ​variable and then bounces through the things that are in a tuple. ​And so in a way these are the same, right? 
​Now there are differences. ​The place where there are differences are that tuples are not changeable. ​Not, they're immutable. ​And if you recall strings are also, not mutable. ​And so if we take a look, if we have a list, 9,8,7, and we can change x ​sub 2 to 6, and then that changes the 7 to be a 6, lists are mutable. ​Here we have three character string ABC, and we want to do character 2 and ​turn that to a D, with this assignment statement. ​And Python says, no, we're not allowed to do that, that is a traceback. 
​And the same thing happens with a tuple where we want to do z sub 2=0. ​And it says sorry, you cannot change. ​So these are not mutable. ​So the difference is lists are mutable, and then strings and ​tuples are not mutable. ​But that's part of the efficiency of tuples, is that they're not mutable, and ​that allows them to be stored more densely than lists. ​And so, there's a whole bunch of things that can't be done with tuples. ​You can't sort a tuple. 
​Whatever order you put the tuple in when you create it, it stays in that you can't ​append, you can't extend it, you can't flip it with reverse. ​Lots of things don't work. ​And if you take a look at the directory output, ​of lists and tuples, you see, whoa, it's a subset. ​You can do count and index. ​Count looks up how many things match a particular value. ​Index says where is a particular value? ​But you can't do, append or extend or insert, pop, remove, because all those ​methods inside lists, that tuples don't have are the ones that make changes to it. 
​So it's prohibited. ​But it also, allows Python to be more efficient, ​knowing that tuples are not going to be changed. ​Lists that have to actually allocate extra memory and ​stuff like that to let them be changed. ​So that's the point. ​It doesn't have to build these structures to be changeable, and ​so they're just more efficient and more performant than lists. ​If you need a list, use a list. ​But if you can get away with a tuple, we tend to use tuples, especially if we're ​going to make a variable for a brief moment, and then throw that variable away. 
​Now, there's a couple of cool interesting things that we can do with tuples. ​And one is, you can put a tuple on a right hand side of an assignment statement. ​Now they both have to be variables in this case. ​Now, that's very different than putting a tuple on the left hand side. ​If I put it on the left hand side of x and y, it would be, x is 4 and y is 6, and ​that's a 4,6 tuple. ​But if we put it on the right hand side, ​it basically expects a tuple on the left hand. ​I mean if we put it on the left hand side, it expects a tuple on the right hand side, ​and then does a one-to-one correspondence. 
​So it's the same as saying, x=4 and y equals quote fred quote. ​And so that is sort of a simultaneous assignment statement. ​You could write this with x=4, y equals fred, right? ​That'd be okay. ​But you can do this, we'll see in a second, and just whatever the order is. ​Now this could be an expression or even a function that returns a tuple, and ​you can then assign it into two variables at the same time. ​Now if you do something like a, b=9, it's going to blow up on that. 
​It's going to be, I'm unhappy about that, ​because it expects if there's a tuple on this side. ​There's got to be a tuple on that side. ​And in this case, if I just put nine over here, there is no tuple on that side. ​Now, we've played with this actually already without even knowing it. ​And so, the way this works is, if you remember d items, ​the items gives you a list of tuples. ​So this dictionary has two things. ​Csev maps to 2 and cwen maps to 4. 
​And so, if we say d items, we say give me the tuples, right? ​And so the tuples come back. ​So this is a list of tuples. ​Now what happens is, that is how the two iteration variable four works. ​And this is a list of 2 tuples. ​And so what happens is the first goes into the k, and the second goes into the v. ​This is like an assignment statement, for this first tuple. 
​Then it runs the loop, and then the second one gets put in the k and the v. ​Then it runs the loop again. ​And so that's kind of how we construct these two iteration variable for ​loops using tuples, ​because that turns out to be a tuple assignment each time through the for loop. ​Now an interesting thing that tuples can do is we can compare them. ​Remember we could compare strings. ​And so, the way tuples work is it does the comparison, ​starting at the leftmost one and compares it. ​So if it's asking the question, is this less than? 
​Well, 0< 5. ​And at that point it does not look beyond, the 0 and the 5. ​That's the most significant element of the tuple. ​The most significant digit of a number, if at 199< 201. ​because if there's a 1 there and the 2 there, then the rest of ​these numbers really don't matter, because that is the most significant digit. ​So that's how this works. ​It doesn't look at these. ​On the other hand if the first one matches, and it's saying, is it less than? 
​Then it has to look at the second one. ​It says, 1< 3. ​It never looks at this one, and it doesn't look at that one. ​But it gives us back true. ​The same is true for strings. ​It's doing string by string comparison. ​It compares these two, and they're the same. 
​And so it has to look to Sally and Sam, and then looks at Sa. ​Well they're the same, so Sa. ​And then at some point goes, there's the l and that m. ​And so, the l is less than m. ​And so that's why this entire thing is true. ​Jones, Sally, is less than Jones Sam. ​If, on the other hand, the first two don't match, Jones Adams, ​then it never looks at the second piece whatsoever. 
​It doesn't bother because the j is greater than the a, so this thing becomes true. ​So it's sort of within strings, it looks the first pair, ​and then within that, if they're not the same, and then it goes to the second pair, ​third pair, whatever, and so it's pretty clever. ​So that's one of the nice things about tuples. ​And we're going to use this in a moment to sort them. ​And so you can think of tuples as being sortable, by their first item and ​where the first item matches, then it looks at the second item. ​So if we go back to looking at the items, what comes out? ​But if we look at the dictionary items, d items, ​then we got a tuple, a,10 c, 22, b, 1. 
​Now what we can do is we can say, hey, we would like to make a sorted copy of this. ​And so we pass this into the sorted function, and ​we get back a sorted list, but it sorted based on, the first thing. ​Because in dictionaries you can't have two keys, ​you can't have duplicate keys, right? ​You can't have 2 a's or 2 b's. ​And so it sorts it based on that. ​If they matched, it would look at the second one. ​But in this particular case, because it's coming from a dictionary, ​these keys are going to be unique. 
​Because the very fact of constructing the dictionary, ​you can't put the same key in more than once. ​You can put the same value in more than once, but ​you can't put the same key in more than once. ​And so sorted basically is this function that takes a sequence, and ​it sort of works through the function and ​gives you back a list that is the sorted version of that. ​And so we can write and compose this, in a for loop as follows. ​So, sorted d items would give us the items sort of unsorted. ​But if we say sorted and pass in d items, ​then we have a sequence that is sorted by key order. ​And so k and v are going to go through this dictionary in key order, ​not value order, key order. 
​So this is a way to say, I want to loop ​through this dictionary, in key order. ​And so that's what's going to come out. ​So it's going to print out ABC, regardless of the order inside the dictionary. ​We sort it before we loop through it. ​And so that's how we're going to get this thing in key order. ​But not value order. ​Now, we're going to quickly get to how do we sort by value, okay? 
​So that's how we sort by key. ​That's really easy, but it takes a little bit more work to sort by value. ​But we're going to be using tuples. ​So, here's how we do it. ​So, if we think of these we can get key value tuples, and ​all we have to do is make value key tuples. ​And if we can make a tuple where the value is first and the key is second, ​then we're okay. ​So what we're going to do is we're going to create a for ​loop that's going to go through these items, in not particularly any order. 
​In this case, we're not using sorted here. ​So it's not any order. ​So k and v are going to work their way through these key value pairs. ​And what we're going to do is we're going to make a new tuple, but ​we're going to reverse the order of what we would get from items. ​In that the value is going to be the first item or the zero item in the tuple and ​k is going to be the second item. ​So if we print this out, they're not particularly sorted at this point, but ​we have the values and the keys. ​Value key, value key, right? 
​Value, key, value key. ​Now what we can do, is we can say, this now is just a list. ​It's a list of tuples. ​And if we tell it to be sorted, then it's going to compare these things and ​then sort. ​And when those match, now the values there can be duplicates. ​So after the duplicate, there's a matching value, ​then it will look to the key as the next thing to sort based on. ​And so we're going to call sorted again and we're going to pass in temp, ​which is our little list that we just made, of 2 tuples, flipped value key. 
​And we're going to give an extra parameter, say, go backwards. ​So sort from high to low, reverse equals true, that's what that does. ​You just add that as a parameter. ​Reverse equals true to sorted, and then we print this out. ​So it's now 22, 10, 1. ​So it's from big, value, to small, okay? ​So that's how you get a sorted by value instead of by key, okay? 
​But we have to make a temporary list. ​So temp is a list, because we have to append to it. ​But each of the things in the list is a tuple. ​So we end up with a list of tuple, tuple, tuple. ​Okay, so, this again is data structures. ​We're trying to create shapes of data, that help us solve our problem. ​So now let's actually solve a problem, the ten most common words. 
​In the previous chapter, we did the most common word, but ​now we want the ten most common words. ​So here's how we do it. ​So we've done this before. ​We open a file, we make a dictionary. ​We loop through all the lines of the file. ​We split the words in the file. ​So we got, file looks kind of this,right? 
​We loop through the lines of the file, and then for ​each line we loop through the words. ​That's the outer loop and the inner loop. ​And then we do this count, get word 0 + 1. ​And that creates our little set of our histograms based on each word. ​And the histograms get taller. ​And then now what we've got is at the end here, ​right here, we've got the completed histogram, in no particular order. ​So now what we're going to do is we are going to extract the data out of that ​dictionary, that histogram data out of the dictionary. 
​And we are going to make a reverse tuple of the value, ​keyword tuple instead of a key value. ​So we do what we just did on the previous slide. ​We write a for loop. ​And, I'm doing a little bit differently here. ​We're going through key value, but then I'm going to make a tuple that's value ​key, put it in the variable new tuple. ​This is a tuple assignment that's going in there. ​And then I'm going to append that to the list. 
​And so we end up with this list, just like on the previous page, ​a list of tuples in value key order. ​Now, I'm okay, let's sort that backwards. ​So this is the value key tuples, go backwards. ​And then we reassign this result assorted back into the list variable. ​When this is done, ​it will be sorted from the highest value down to the lowest value. ​And now, we have to do two things. ​Look for the top ten, and we have to flip them out when we're printing. 
​So this list is now backwards. ​It's v comma k, value comma k, and we're going to use list slicing. ​So we're saying start at the first one and go up to, but not including ten. ​So that's 0 through 9, which is the first 10. ​And, you'll notice that this val and key are flipped. ​And that's because in it, value is the first piece of each tuple, and ​key is the second piece of each tuple. ​And so, it's going to go through successively value key, value key, ​value key, value key, value key. 
​But it's only going to go through the first 10 because we have limited this with ​list slicing. ​And then we print it out in the order we want it to see it in the first place. ​So we see kind of a flipping of the order, between how we iterate through the data ​structure and then how we print this stuff out. ​And that gets us back to the key value, which is what we want. ​And so that's quite a sophisticated thing. ​We're using dictionaries, we're using lists, and we're using tuples, and ​sorting. ​And that's a nice little piece of code. 
​Again, I encourage you to understand every single line of this code. ​So, this next slide is not something I'm insisting that you understand, ​but some of you might find this kind of fascinating. ​So I can do effectively this bottom part here, not the calculation, but ​this bottom part right there. ​I can do this all in one line of code, that takes the dictionary and ​then ends up with the sorted tuple sorted by value order. ​And this is it. ​Let you look at it for a second. ​It uses a part of python called list comprehension. 
​And so the tricky bit here, is this syntax in the middle, ​and this looks like a list and it is a list. ​The difference is instead of expressing the list with appends or ​as a constant with commas, we're expressing the list as an expression. ​And I like to read this as right here, just to say the word for all. ​Create me tuples that are v comma k. ​And you'll notice this order is I got value key v comma k, tuples 4. ​So this is like there's a little loop that happens here. ​It's going to stamp out a bunch of these little tuples. 
​Stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp, stamp. ​And it's going to stamp enough, to go all the way through for ​each kv that's in c items. ​So that's the key value in this dictionary. ​A 10, b 1, c 22. ​This is going to run three times. ​It's going to make three tuples, but this list is going to have them flipped. ​So this little bit right here, this little bit in ​the brackets, is the same as this bit right here. 
​It is basically the same as doing that, ​except it's expressing it in a more direct but slightly more complex way. ​And so this is a list that's computed on the fly, ​it's a three tuple list, flipped with values and keys. ​And then, I pass this in right into sorted, to the sorted function. ​So that's sorted function parentheses. ​And, then I take what comes out of sorted, ​which is this, and I pass that into print. ​And, I forgot to put reverse equals true on here. ​So it comes out but not reversed. 
​It's value key but not reversed. ​So you get the idea. ​And so if you're really, really interested in this, ​go read up a bit on list comprehension. ​It's kind of an interesting and powerful way to make even more succinct Python. ​But I don't spend too much time talking about it, ​because if you see this version of it and ​you feel like that version of it makes a lot more sense to you, stick with it. ​If this version makes a lot more sense to you, then use it. ​I mean, once you get good at it, both of them sort of equally speak to you. 
​But it's probably easier if you're certainly beginning to use more simpler ​primitives. ​And here, ​once you're more sophisticated using sort of these more powerful primitives, okay? ​So that's a quick run through tuples, ​we talked about how they're pretty much like lists. ​You can't change them, you can compare them, they're sortable, and ​you can have the two values that get into an assignment statement. ​And, we can now sort dictionaries by key and ​value by constructing a data structure, ie, a list of flip tuples, and ​then sorting that, and we use that to sort of sorted is there for us. ​And if we can set the data up, in a way that sorted does what we want, then we get ​the data that we want, and we're really taking advantage of data structures. 