​One of the applications of ​dictionaries that we've really been ​talking about this whole course ​is the notion of a histogram, ​where you have a bunch of things and you want ​to look through all those things ​and then you want to create counts. ​In this case, we're going to talk ​about the most common name. ​These are some of the names from ​the email data that we use in this course over and over, ​from the email list that was from ​2004 and open source project that I ran called sky, ​and these are actual real people. ​I still am friends with ​all these folks and I know them all. ​But the problem is, is that you're going ​to like when we're doing the maximum and the minimum, ​you could look at these and you can figure out, okay, ​looks like Marquard is three and then Zhen one, two. ​As a human, we look at ​this from our eyes and ​we're just looking at different things. ​I think Zhen is five and I am three. 
​Cwen is two, it looks like. ​Now the problem there is, ​and we saw this in the most common word, ​we're terrible as humans. ​We're pretty good at getting most of it right, ​but we're going to make little mistakes. ​One of the things to do is to go through ​and just start a little, ​making a little tick marks. ​Here is Csev. First time you see it, count it, 1, 2, 3. ​Instead of just looking around at it, ​you look through it sequentially one ​at a time and then you start seeing a new name, ​you make a little tick mark, and ​then you see the name another time, ​you add a tick mark to that name. 
​You end up with this dictionary. ​That's like a dictionary where the count, ​the three, in this case the seven, ​and the five, and the three, ​those are in a dictionary, ​and the key for that dictionary is Csev, ​Zqian, Cwen, and Stephen Marquard. ​That's the idea. This way, ​we can not just look at, ​what we got, we got 10, 12 here. ​You can do a million and you can still do a histogram of ​a million things and find out ​the count of all the different ​things that you're going to see. ​You can implement this and treat ​the key in your dictionary as that name. ​Now you have to start ​your counter the first time that you Csev and Cwen, ​so set it to one, ​and then you can see it, ​but then we can add one to it when we see another Cwen, ​we're going to add one, and then she'll ​be two and then I'll be one. 
​Then the idea of we can have as many counters as we want. ​We have a bit of code that adds ​a new counter with an assignment statements, ​ccc_csev = 1, ​and then we add when we see the next one. ​There's a little bit more to it, ​but you can see the idea of noticing ​a new name and ​adding one to the current count of that name. ​One of the things about dictionaries is ​you can't just reference ​a dictionary key that doesn't ​exist because Python wants to blow up on you. ​It's not as scary as it once was to see a traceback. ​We understand that traceback is ​just a form of communication between you and Python. ​That's why I made them pink ​because they're not mean and not scary. 
​They're just communication. ​In this particular case, ​we are printing ccc_csev. ​It's a brand new dictionary because we just ​created it one statement earlier, ​and it says you can't do that and you ​get a traceback and your code looks icky. ​The good news is you can ask with the in operator, ​and we've used in in for loops. ​But this is a logical operator that is going to say, ​is csev in the dictionary? ​Is csev one of the keys that in the dictionary ccc? ​In this case, because we're just ​starting out, it's false. 
​Now what we can do is now that we ​can check without error, ​whether something's in there or not, ​then we can write an if then else. ​Now what you see, as you see we are making a dictionary. ​We're going to have some names. ​Normally we'd be reading this off of a file, ​but I'm keeping it simple, ​and we got Csev, Cwen, ​Csev, Zqian, and Cwen again. ​And we're going to write a loop that's going to go ​through all those things, ​and we're going to first check if the name we're ​looking at is not in counts. ​If that key is not already present in counts, ​we're going to say count_name = 1. ​It's the first time we've seen it. 
​It's like adding a new name and ​putting a single tick mark on. ​Otherwise, if it's already in there, ​we can say count_name = count_name + 1 ​and we know we're not going to get ​a traceback because it's in there, ​and then we store that back in a count_name. ​Now we've got this loop. ​In this case, we're only going to run it five times, ​and it's going to print out that we see Csev twice, ​Cwen twice, and Zqian once. ​But this could also go a million times. ​This is a generic way of using a dictionary to capture ​the moment that we first encounter ​a name and then ​capture the moment where we're adding one to it, ​we're encountering at the second, ​third, fourth, whatever. ​When we're done, the dictionary ​is a histogram of the counts of the people. 
​Now, this notion of this if then else. ​If it's in, do one thing. ​If it's not, do another thing. ​It's so common. ​What we have built into dictionaries, ​thankfully, is a method. ​Someday, we'll talk about object-oriented programming. ​It's a method called get. 
​Every dictionary has this get method, ​and it takes two parameters. ​One is the key you're looking for, ​and the second one is what we ​call the default value if the key is not present. ​x is either going to be zero ​or whatever the old value is under the key name. ​This is not going to get a traceback, ​and it collapses this little if then else ​from four lines of code into one line of code. ​This is what we'd call an idiom. ​It's a pattern that we use over and ​over and over again because we just ​don't want our code to be bigger for bigger's sake ​because four lines are ​four times more likely to have an error than one line. ​It's not always true. Sometimes the one line is ​so ugly that it is hard to understand. 
​But in this one, ​all us Python programmers know what get is. ​We use it all the time. ​Now we can rewrite that for loop. ​We're going to loop again through the five names, ​and we're going to say count_name = counts.get name, 0. ​That says if it's not there, ​that part of the right-hand side expression ​is going to be zero ​and then we're going to add one to it. ​This solves both the case of ​the first time we see a name and ​then later times that we see a name, ​and it takes that if and else a couple slides ​earlier and just turns it into a single line. ​Again, take a look at it, ​go back to those slides, ​learn it, and then just like, ​gets a thing and you use it. 
​I mean, nobody who knows ​Python writes that if then else anymore, ​unless you have other logic that you've got to do. ​Everybody knows how get works because histograms are ​such a common use case away we go. ​Counting is a beautiful thing. ​I'll wrap up this segment to talk about Sesame Street. ​There is a wonderful little song that you can find online ​by searching for the string counting ​is marvelous by the count on Sesame Street. ​I can't give you the URL ​because every time somebody puts it up, ​they get told to take it down, ​but then someone else puts it up. ​Sooner or later, you'll be able to hear the count sing. 
​Counting is marvelous. ​I shouldn't probably sing, ​but you get the idea. ​The count cares about numbers, ​and the count likes to count things. ​Python cares about numbers, ​and Python likes to count things too. Cheers. 