​So now we're going to talk about how strings and lists work together and ​this is one of the more common things that we're going to do. ​We're going to read some data, we're going to bust it into pieces, ​and we're going to look for little fragments of pieces. ​And this is one of people's favorite methods in strings, ​and that is the split method. ​So we're going to come up with a way to split a string. ​And the simple thing we're going to do is we're going to find the spaces and ​split it into pieces. ​And there is a built-in function in Python called split. ​So it's a member of abc, so abc.split, and this returns a list. 
​So it basically takes a string and gives us back a list. ​And the list is with three words. The spaces are gone, ​they're chopped up, and we have them. ​Now, when we're done we see in that particular string there were three words ​and we can pull out the first word by printing stuff sub 0. ​So this is a really convenient thing. ​Sometimes we want the second word or the third word or who knows, ​maybe we want to write a loop that loops through all the words. ​It's very, very, very easy to do. 
​And so now we have stuff and now we have a three, ​we're going to loop through them and then we have an iteration variable w ​that is going to go through the three words in the list. ​So the code to make this work is here's my string, split it, and ​then write a simple for loop ​that's horizontally going to go through and ​look at each of the three words in that. ​So it only took three lines of code to do that. ​So this loop runs three times and each time through it's with three words. ​And this pattern, when you're lost in a future assignment, ​come back and look at this slide. ​because this is the pattern for how we read a line, break it into pieces, and ​then look at each word in the line is a split and then a for loop. ​Okay. A couple of subtle details about split is that splits ​by default on whitespace and it treats more than one space as a single space. 
​And so even though there's extra spaces here, ​when we split this line we still get four things, a lot of spaces. ​The words that you would expect to get out of that. ​So it's kind of intelligent, an extra space doesn't freak split out. ​The second thing about split is that it doesn't have to work with spaces. ​And so if you get data like this, maybe from a login system or ​from your accounting system or something and they have some weird delimiter, ​you can tell split to use a different delimiter. ​If we do it just this way, it's looking for spaces and it finds none. ​So we get back a list of the words as defined by spaces. 
​And it doesn't realize these semicolons are what we want it to split ​on in the first place. ​And we just got a list and that list had one string in it and ​that's what happens if there are no spaces in the string. ​On the other hand, you can tell split to split based on ​a different character other than whitespace. ​So when you tell it to split on a different character, ​it doesn't do this fancy thing of compressing multiple spaces. ​It doesn't split on spaces anymore, it only splits on what you told it to split. ​So looks, chops, looks, chops, looks, chops. ​And so what we get is a list first, second, and third. 
​And again, this is when you need to do this because you got some ​data that's really weird. ​And we'll see situations where we use split. ​Instead of looking where we go finding a character and we do a find and ​we do another find, we use split and then just grab things. ​Okay, so this is an example of how we would use split as we parse mail data, ​and we are going to do a lot of parsing of mail data. ​And so, so here we go. ​Again, these lines you are are going to get used to. Open the file. Loop through the file. 
​Strip the white space off the right-hand side of the thing. ​Check to see if it starts with From. ​From space, in this case. If it's not, continue. ​So this is the skip code. ​Skip the lines we're not interested in. And then we're going to split it. 
​And what we're interested in this particular thing is here's these ​From lines. ​We're only going to read the From lines because theres a lot more in this ​mbox-short. ​We're looking at what day of the week this thing happened in. ​And so you can see these lines. ​They always have spaces, so we just chop it based on spaces, chop, chop. ​And they'll always be the same thing and so that will be word 0, word 1, ​and word 2. ​And so word sub 2 is always going to be the day of the week. 
​And so this is going to skip the lines, skip the lines that don't have From. ​As soon as we see From, we split it, and we pull out the second word. ​And this is really simple code. ​The split makes our life a lot easier. ​We don't have to search for a space, we don't have to search for another space. ​If you're doing this with just find, you'd have to do something like search for ​the first space, then in another line of code you'd search for the second space. ​And then you'd search for the third space and ​then you'd use string slicing to pull this out. 
​Yuck. Just split it, go grab the third word, and you're done. ​So now what we're going to do is we're going to show you a pattern that I call ​double split. ​And that's you split something and then you split it again. ​And we're going to go back to the problem that we were solving earlier. ​And that is we want to pull out this information, right. ​And the last time we did it, we did a find. 
​And then we found the space afterwards, and then we used string slicing. ​And that still would work. ​That's not a bad way to do it, but ​let's look at how we could do this with splitting. ​So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to split this into a split ​based on the spaces, using the normal split. ​And so, now we have words 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. ​And now we're going to grab out words sub 1, okay? ​So that's not the host name, that's the email address, okay? 
​So that pulls out the email address in two really elegant lines. ​And if you go to the find strategy, we had to use variables, ​we had to remember what the variables mean, you have to draw a little picture. ​It's hard. Now it's like oh, it's the second thing, just grab it. ​It's the second thing. And so that is what it would be. ​Then what we're going to do is we're going to do a double split. We're going to ​do a second split. 
​And so we're going to put this variable words sub 1, which is this one right here, ​into the email variable and now we are going to split this, ​this thing right here, based on at sign ​because we know that the email consists of two parts. ​One is before the at sign, the second is after the at sign. ​And so now what we get is a list. ​And so you see that it split that based on the at sign. ​We have the second, so this is the 0 piece, and this is the 1 piece. ​I tend to use the word "pieces" on this all the time. ​If you see my code ​I use pieces because when I split it, it gets split into pieces. 
​And that's why I name my variable pieces. ​And now, I split pieces sub 1. ​It's not words sub 1, but it's pieces sub 1. ​So words was each of these words and ​pieces was the pieces after we split that into pieces. ​And pieces sub 1 is the second part ​of the pieces that came after we split with an at sign. ​And so you look at this, compare it to what we did before and ​like I understand what that is, and I could write that code quickly. ​And it's predictable, and I don't have to remember what those variables are. 
​I don't have to draw myself any pictures, I just go like chop, chop. ​This is the 1. Chop. ​This is the 1 of that little second piece of pieces. ​So, that gives us sort of a good start on lists, our first real data structure. ​The concept of a collection and where we put multiple things into one variable. ​These collections have internal organizing mechanisms. 
​Lists are organized sequentially with the bracket operator as the lookup operator. ​And then we did some operations on strings, on lists ​we sorted the lists and we've used split. ​And so in the next two chapters, ​we're going to refine all of these techniques and add new techniques to them. 