​Welcome to Chapter 8. So in Chapter 8, ​we're going to take a little, things in a little bit different direction. ​Up to now, we've doing, ​we've been talking about and building code ​to understand what we in computer science call algorithms. ​Algorithms are the paths that we call, ​write code to go certain paths. ​We go here and we go over there. ​We go back up and we come this way. ​We check to see if it's this. We do this that and the other. 
​Algorithms are like GPS routing for code. ​Data structures are structured ​variables and up to now we've been using very, very simple variables. ​We've been using variables that are like x equals or y equals or whatever. ​But there are more complex ways to use memory, use the variables. ​There are, there are collection variables and so ​this is the first time we're going to really start ​talking about ways to use variables differently. ​And the design of your variables, ​the design of your data structures, ​how you organize your data while your program is running, ​can help you solve your problem. ​So you have a set of steps, ​and you have an internal shape of data. 
​And lists and dictionaries and tuples are ​the first three data structures we're really going to talk about. ​So these are collections, ​where we have more than one value in a variable ​and so before we talk too much about ​collections,let's talk about what's not a collection. ​So in this little example, x = 2, that finds a piece of memory. ​Python labels it "x" and sticks a 2 in it. ​Then later it says x = 4. It finds that same piece of memory, ​overwrites the 2 with a 4. ​And so when it's all said and done, ​what we have is a 4. 
​Now, a list is a collection, ​meaning that in a single variable we can have more than one thing. ​And so in this we've actually, ​we've actually been using lists all along. ​When we see the square bracket syntax we've been using ​these in for statements, etc., etc., etc. ​This is a list. Square brackets is a list constant. ​But what you're noticing here is I can put three things, three different strings, ​Joseph, Glenn, and Sally, ​into a single variable by enclosing them in this brackets. ​And so it's still a single variable. ​friends is no longer a string. 
​It's a list of strings, which is different than a string. ​And the same for carryon: socks, shirt, and perfume. ​So you can think of it as, sort of ​like a piece of luggage with a name, x or y. ​But then you can put multiple things in it. ​And the interesting thing about these data structures that we'll use for ​different purposes is how you put them in and then ​how you get them back out will be the distinctions between ​these three different kinds of collections that we're going to talk about. ​So like I said, list constants are anything in square brackets. ​So that's a list of three integers: 1, 24 and 76. 
​This is a list of three strings: red, yellow, and blue. ​You see it can be either kind. ​We just use commas and we use square brackets to start them and stop them. ​You do not have to have the same type of data in a list. ​Here is a list that has a string with red, ​an integer of 24, and then 98.6, ​which is a floating point number. ​And it doesn't even have to be, ​we won't do this too much for a while, ​but this is a three-element list. ​The first element in the list is an integer. 
​The second element in the list is another list. ​It's lists within lists, ​it's turtles all the way down its inception. ​So you can have lists that include lists. ​And when we talk about data structures in a more advanced way, ​having a list that includes another list or ​a dictionary that includes lists is just part of the design. ​Now, we're way, it's way premature to talk about why you would do this but it's possible. ​So this is a 1, ​a list, and a 7. ​And so there are actually three elements in, ​in this particular list. 
​Okay? And you can have an empty list. ​And so that is list constants are these square brackets. ​Now like I said, we have been using lists already. ​We have for loops and we iterate the i through 5, 4, 3, and 2, and 1 ​to print these five things out which means that for is going to run ​this once for each value in the list ​and i is going to take on the successive values in the list. ​And like I said, we have already been doing that. ​Right? 
​You know, we've been doing that since Chapter 4, or ​Chapter 5, or something like that. ​So lists and definite loops, ​the kinds of things that we've been doing all along, ​are best friends. The in. ​So you could think of a list as like a set. ​It's a set of three strings and in is like for all the members of this set. ​And so "for friend in friends" and remember, ​the fact that I use plural here and singular here does ​not mean anything to Python. It means something to you as you're reading the code. 
​That's a mnemonic variable. ​It can be anything you want. ​As a matter of fact, this is exactly the same code. ​z equals Joseph, blah, blah, blah, ​and for x in z, x ​takes on a successive value. ​Python sees these two things as completely equivalent. ​But you as a human being read them as something different. ​And so that's the choice of, ​reminding us of the choice of variable names. ​So these collections, there's putting stuff into the collection ​and putting multiple things in the collection but there's also getting them out. 
​And so, we use the index operator, ​the same operator we use to look inside strings, ​to look inside lists. ​So I, I read this in my mind as sub. ​So this is friends sub 1. ​Now remember that these, ​using the elevator scheme in Europe technique, ​the first one is 0, ​the second one is 1. And so friends sub 1 is actually the second item in ​the list and that's how Glenn ends up getting printed out here. ​So you can look inside lists. ​We can change lists and the word that's used in ​Python speak is called mutable, means changeable. 
​It can be changed. ​And so you'll notice that some things are not mutable. ​So like strings. ​So we put in banana in fruit. ​This seems like it would change that first letter to lowercase b. ​We've got sub 0, fruit sub 0 equals b. ​And unless you saw this traceback, you know, ​you might think, ah, this is no problem. 
​Syntactically Python could actually support it but it doesn't ​because we are not allowed to change this string. ​And that's part of the reason that when we do things like dot ​lower on strings we always say it makes a copy of ​the string and gives us back a lowercase copy without changing ​the original string. And that's because strings are not mutable. ​Item assignment is another word that Python uses to talk about this. ​Item assignment, so strings are not mutable. ​Okay, but on the other hand, ​if we have a list, 2, 14, 26, ​five integers, and we print it out and then we say lotto sub 2 equals 28. ​Well, that is this thing, ​so that puts 28 into that position. 
​And at this point the list is truly changed, right? ​So we print it out. The original 26 is long gone. ​It's just like any assignment statement except that ​we can assign into a piece of the list. ​We can put something into a piece of the list. ​Lists have length, just like strings We use the exact same function. ​Python knows the type of its parameter and the length of the thing that we're looking at. 
​And it says, oh, I know what that is. ​In this case it's a string and it's nine characters. ​And if we say, oh, here's this list and this is another list that ​not all the types are the same it's one, two, three, four. ​How many things are in there? Tell me about that. ​Four things are in there. So len is, ​you can pass in various sequences ​and we'll use them for dictionaries and tuples as well when we get to that point. 
​The range function is kind of a weird ​special function that we use mostly when we're constructing ​loops but the range function returns a list, returns a list. ​And so it returns a list 0 up to but not including. ​Sound familiar? 0 but up to but not including the number. ​So range 4 gives us four numbers. ​But they start from 0 to 3. ​And the reason for this is that they can then correspond to ​the index position either in lists or in strings because zero's, ​you know, a three-element list is ​0, 1, 2, up to but not including 3. 
​And so, if we have a three-item list ​here and we say how many things are in there, it's 3. ​And if we say print range of len friends so this len friends is 3. ​And so then this range is 0 through 2. ​And so we can use these to construct lists ​if we want to have a counted variable. So that the best way to, ​sort of, go through a list is this one here. ​It's a nice simple determinant loop that basically has ​an interation variable and it's very clear if all we want to do is print them out. ​But what if we somehow want to know where they're at relative to the list. 
​We want some i variable. ​You could say i equals 0, ​use a while loop, i equals plus 1. ​You can do all that stuff. We've seen that, ​those loops in previous things. ​Or you could use a for loop. ​But instead of having the iteration variable go through the actual elements of the list, ​we have the iteration variable go through ​the numbers 0 through 3 and so that's what this is. ​So range here is 0, 1, 2. 
​And so then i is going to go through 0, 1, and 2. ​And then, when we want to look at the particular item of the list we ​use just use the index operator sub 0, sub 1, sub 2. ​So these two lists produce the exact same output but in this one we know, ​during each iteration of the loop, ​we know what i is. And there may be ​reasons that you want to know that. You might want to print out ​oh, I found something at the third position. ​Which you wouldn't be able to see here unless you added like i = 0, ​i = i + 1. So this is a way to create what we call a counted loop. 
​So instead of it being sort of a loop that just goes through a set it is counted loop so, ​because it's going through a range of numbers. ​Okay. So up next, ​we'll continue talking about some of the things that you can do with lists. 