​So now we're going to talk about some of the operations that you can do to lists. ​We've been talking about their internal structure but ​now we are going to start working with them. ​So the first thing that we see here is that we can add them together and ​it's just like concatenating strings. ​We concatenate lists together. ​It pretty much works the same way. ​Adding a and b to make c does not hurt either a or b. ​Slicing operator, again think of strings. 
​Think of slicing. ​Think of beginning position up to but not including so ​sub 1 is that position right there up to but not including sub 3 which is 41, 12. ​So that's what we get there. ​Just like with lists you can omit the first one so that's up to but ​not including 4, which is this one right here so this is the 0, 1, 2, 3, 4. ​You'll mentally have to count that up to but not including 4. ​That's that one. ​3 to the end so 0, 1, 2, 3 that's 3 to the end so that's 3, 74, and 15. ​And then, just like with strings, you can have the beginning and the end. 
​So again it's very much like strings. ​Slicing of lists is like slicing of strings except ​that the list is slicing entire cells within the string. ​Just like in strings we have lots of library methods, ​there are lots of methods in the list object. ​append which adds a thing to the end of the list. ​count which actually, len tells you how many things are in a list. ​count tells you how many things that match a particular thing are in a list. ​extend, index, insert, pop, remove, there's a whole bunch of things and ​they're all very well documented in the Python documentation. ​So we'll use a couple of these things. ​There's a couple of ways to build a list from scratch. ​We're calling this, this is constructor and so list is a predefined type. ​This is the type of list. 
​So we say, make a brand new list, it's the same as saying, give me an empty list ​and then assign it into stuff. So that is a list with nothing in it, so ​the length of that is zero. ​And then we say let's append the string book and then let's append the string 99 ​and we print it and now we have a book with two items, and ​so you can sort of do this over and over and over and append things if you like. ​And you can keep on going. ​We can append the string cookie. ​So at the end of cookie, you've got three things in there. ​book, 99, and cookie. ​So append is a method. 
​Now, recall that strings are not mutable, so ​all these methods would return variables. ​But lists are mutable, and so appending actually changes this variable. ​So note that stuff is different from here to here because we appended it, and ​that's because lists are mutable, but not strings. ​And so they kind of function a little differently, and ​just when you learn strings, and you learn that the return value. ​So, for example, you don't want to do something like x = x.append. ​Because the return value that you get back here, the residual return value, actually ​messes x up. ​So you do not want to do that. You just say x.append and that works a lot better. ​in. Again, one of my favorite Python operators is in. 
​In strings you're asking if a character or a substring was in another string. ​Here now you're looking at the members of the list and ​you're saying is 9 somewhere in the list? ​Yes, it is. ​Is 15 somewhere in the list? ​No, it is not. ​And then not in is also an operator. ​It's the opposite of in, so is 20 not in the list? 
​And the answer is 20 is not in the list so we get back True. ​That's just a question that you can ask in any old if statement that you want. ​Lists maintain order. ​The order that you put things in is the order that you get them out. ​So append, append, append. ​Whatever you've appended, it comes out in exactly the same order. ​List maintain that. 
​They're kind of dense and compacted, and ​you can only add to the end, although you can say, push all those ones down and ​put something in the middle using insert, if you like. ​But it also means that we can sort them. ​And so, here we have three things. ​Joseph, Glenn, and Sally. ​And we say, hey friends, sort yourself. ​This is kind of more object oriented. ​We call the sort method within the friends object. 
​And then now, it has been changed. ​Right? So it actually changes it. ​And so it's now in alphabetical order, Glenn, Joseph, and Sally. ​And friend sub 1 is the new sub 1 and so ​this actually changes it because lists are mutable. ​We have lots of functions. ​We've already played with len and talked about len and ​how many things are in the list. 
​We can say what's the largest number of a list? ​What's the smallest number of a list? ​Add them all up. ​What's the sum of this list? ​Sum of the list is 154 and you can calculate the average by the sum. ​Now, some of you who will go back to Chapter 5 and ​say, well why did you give us all those for ​loops to do the same thing instead of just telling us this function? ​So the answer is, well there are reasons for ​knowing how to construct those for loops. 
​And they were good, easy-to-understand for loops. ​If you have a list and ​it's a list of numbers, these are far better than constructing a for loop. ​So all those examples from that earlier chapter, ​they're not the way you would do that particular problem. ​But sometimes you're reading through lines in a file and ​you have to do it a little bit differently. ​So here's a couple of loops that sort of demonstrate this notion ​of how you might use these functions to calculate an average versus ​how we calculated an average in the earlier chapter. ​Although I kind of redo this in a different way because now I'm pretending ​I'm reading from a file but instead I'm going to read from input. ​I'm going to read the numbers dot dot dot until I get a done. 
​And I'm going to calculate the average of those numbers. ​And so it's just a standard loop where we set total to 0 and count to 0. ​I'm going to make it a while loop, if I was reading a file it would be a for ​loop but this is, I'm going to ask for some input, prompt it. ​If it's done I'm going to break out of the loop so that handles this case, ​so I can get out of the loop somehow. ​And then I calculate the floating point value of that input, and ​I add it to my running total, and I have my running count, count = count + 1. ​And then this runs you know in this case three times, and then it comes down here, ​and computes the average and prints it out, and away we go, okay? ​And so that's kind of the manually constructed loop with a manually ​constructed counter and a manually constructed sum and away you go. 
​Now, if I were try to use max and min to accomplish the exact same thing. ​So what I would do then is I would accumulate these values in a list. ​So I'm using a data structure now rather than just logic. ​And so this is kind of an algorithm that's carefully constructed to produce the count ​and the sum when it's all said and done. ​Now what we're going to do is we're going to use the data structure to solve ​that same problem. ​And so we'll say hey, ​let's make an empty list because we're going to accumulate some numbers. ​And then we have the same while loop, same two lines, we look for ​actually the same three lines. 
​We get a value, we check to see if we're done, we get out, and ​we convert it to a float. ​But now instead of doing the summing as we're doing here, ​we say let's just remember that. ​And we've got this list, we're going to fill it up, we're going to put numbers in it. ​So we put a 3 in, we put a 9 in, we put a 5 in. ​And then, put a 3 in, put a 9 in, put a 5 in. ​So we don't, we're not actually calculating any calculation. ​And then when we hit done, we come out, and we say, oh, let's calculate the average. 
​Well it's, you've got these numbers in a list now. ​We have a list that looks like [3, 9, 5], that's what's in here. ​So we take the sum of that, and then divide it by the len, and ​we have the average. ​And this same program produces exactly the same output, okay? ​So that both these things produce the same output. ​And you can decide for yourself which you think is more elegant. ​In general, there is one tiny difference between these two. 
​And that is this one actually has to have ​all of the numbers in memory before it can actually do the calculation. ​This only keeps one number in memory. ​And that probably doesn't matter if there's like a hundred thousand numbers or ​less, But if there's like a hundred million numbers, this one doesn't ​use a hundred million spaces in memory and this one does use a hundred million. ​So there are sizes of data that are large enough that it matters, ​the memory usage between these two things matter. ​because this requires two variables for any number. ​This one here requires two variables for ​any numbers of things we're going to do the average of. ​And this requires an extra bit of memory for every single number. ​So it scales based on the numbers. 
​For the small stuff that you're doing it hardly matters. ​And if you've already somehow have these numbers in a list ​this is a great way to do a sum. ​You wouldn't write the for ​loop to do the sum. If you've already got numbers in a list then add them up with ​a sum or figure out the maximum using a function, that's just perfectly fine. ​So that's kind of manipulating lists and writing some interesting loops. ​And up next we're going to play with connecting lists and strings together. 