​So now, we're going to do some more things with strings, ​because string manipulation is a lot of programs. ​Number manipulation is one kind of program and ​string manipulation is generally another thing that we do in programs. ​So let's just... the +, we've been doing that, ​where it sort of looks to the left, ​looks to the right, concatenates. ​Remember, there is no space in here. ​If you say, like, print(x,y), ​the two things come out and there's a space in between them. ​But that's not what's going to happen here. ​This + says concatenate these two things and it literally does it. 
​So if you want to put a space in between, you have to say, you know, ​a concatenated with a space concatenated with ​There and so we've explicitly put the space in. ​So, string concatenation truly concatenates the strings together. ​If we added the space automatically then you'd need a way to suppress that behavior. ​So you'd need some other operation that concatenated strings without a space. ​So we just say we've got one way of doing it, ​and if you want a space, put the space in there. ​The in, which is, ​I love so much in the for loop, ​is also usable as a logical operator. ​The expression is a little bit different. 
​And so, instead of like, you know, ​in, sort of variable in, ​it's like this is asking that question. ​And it's very much in a way like, you know, ​double equals, which is a question, or not equals, you know, ​these are leading back, giving us back True/False ​or like less than or less than or equals, or something like that. ​These are all questions. ​Is this true? Yes or no? ​And we use them in if statements. ​And so, here we make the variable fruit, ​and we ask the question: Is the string 'n' in fruit? 
​And so, in is an operator here. ​It's like ==, but it's really looking through and saying, is the letter n in fruit? ​And the answer is yes, it is, ​'cause there's that n there, ​and so we get back a True. ​Is 'm' in the contents of the variable fruit? ​The answer is no, so we get back a False. ​And now it doesn't have to be a single character. ​We can ask for a substring, ​and say, is 'nan' inside fruit? 
​The answer is yes, ​there is, and so we get a True back. ​And so it's pretty smart. ​It can scan, it finds whether or not these things are in there. ​And we tend to build these things where we use them in if statements. ​You know, if 'a' is in fruit, ​then print Found it! ​So in this case, that's an expression that evaluates to ​True because a is in fruit and so this code executes and away you go. ​Just a little note, if you're using the interactive interpreter, ​and you're using – you actually have to throw a blank line here. 
​You don't need a blank line in real Python, like if you're writing in a file. ​But, you know, if you type this and then you indent that, it works, ​and then you hit enter here, ​then it will actually run that whole block of code. ​You have to give this blank line to convince it. ​It's a situation where the interpreter, the chevron prompt, ​is slightly different than a Python syntax in a Python script. ​No biggie, but I bet by now you've probably figured that out. ​OK, you can compare strings. ​They make a lot of sense. 
​Equal sign, you know it just, ​you know, compares character for character. ​Less than and greater than have to do with ​the character set of your computer ​and the character set that Python is configured to use. ​So less than, if you recall, ​we did max and min, ​and we learned that the uppercase letters are generally less than lowercase letters. ​Right? So uppercase Z is less than lowercase a. ​And that's going to happen if you do upper, greater than or less than. ​Now, the thing that works, ​for example, that is, you know, consistent, ​is if you have something like Chuck with uppercase C and Glenn with uppercase G, ​oops, and lowercase everything else, it's going to sort right, ​because all the uppercase letters sort ​the right way and the lowercase letters sort the right way. 
​And, but chuck and Glenn, ​chuck and Glenn will sort the wrong way because the G is ​going to sort before the c, and so... ​But, it's ok. It makes some sense, it's all consistent. ​But you can do this. But certainly == works just peachy fine. ​So, those are the sort of the basic operations we can do, ​but there's a whole bunch of additional capabilities ​that are part of what we call the string library. ​And it has to do with the idea that strings are objects. 
​And later, we'll learn what objects are and learn a lot of stuff. ​Just for now, objects are these kinds of variables ​that have capabilities that are kind of grafted onto or built into them. ​And so, inside, once we put a string in greet, ​Python knows that's a string. ​If you use the type command, ​it would say, oh, class str. ​That str confers certain benefits and privileges that strings are ​capable of doing that are different than what integers can do and ​different than what files can do and other kinds of types. ​Right? And one of the things they can do is, ​you can say greet.lower(). 
​Now, it's almost like saying, ​like calling a function called lower() and passing greet into it. ​But this is slightly different syntax. ​This is, this is run a function lower() that's part of the string object, ​of the string class, ​that is going to give us back a lowercase copy. ​So what this functionally does, it says, ​make a copy of greet but all lowercase and return it to us, ​and then we're going to store that into zap. ​And so, if we print this out, ​it's basically all lowercase. ​And if we take a look at what's in greet, ​we see the greet is unchanged, ​because this was make a copy that's lowercase, a lowercase copy. ​And so it doesn't change the original. 
​And even a constant is a legit object, ​and we have it, a lower method inside of this. ​So this just prints "Hi There".lower() which gives ​us 'hi there' all lowercase. So we're good. ​OK? And so even constants have this sort of built-in capability. ​When we get there, we're going to call, you can look this up, ​look at object method, method. ​This thing is a method. 
​Or you can look ahead in an upcoming chapter and figure ​out what methods are or you can just look on the Internet to figure out what methods are. ​And we will cover this in much greater detail when we get there. ​This is foreshadowing. ​Now these are the dir and the type are things we've done before. ​And so the type says it's a type str. ​Class is an object-oriented term that ​basically says this is a thing that's of the category string. ​And now dir says, ​what are strings capable of? 
​And there's actually a bunch of things. I don't show them all. ​But these are a bunch of methods in the class str. ​This is a light version of an object-oriented lecture. ​And these are just the things you can do. ​So it's stuff dot ​blah blah blah (). ​OK? replace, rfind, rstrip, they're all here. 
​There's a whole bunch of them. ​And, this is, dir is not the best documentation for these things, ​but Python, of course, has wonderful online documentation that explains it. ​So they tell you what the parameters are, ​and str is whatever variable like, ​you know, x or y. ​You know, and y.replace() blah old new, ​y.rjust() for justification, or split. ​We'll play with lots of these things. ​So we'll take a look at some of the more common things that we ​do with the string library. Capitalize, ​which takes a string like, you know, abc, ​and makes the first letter Abc, ​or you could even have ABC as input and then output makes Abc capitalized. 
​Whenever it's done, the first letter's capitalized. ​That's what capitalize does. ​Why you want to do that? ​Whatever. It's already built in. ​You could write a for loop to do that, ​but it's already built in, ​so we'll take a look at some of these things. ​One of the most common things that we do is use the find operator. 
​And it's kind of like in, ​except that instead of returning True/False, ​it returns where it found it. ​So, the in says, ​is the 'na' inside banana? ​Or, find says, where inside the banana is 'na'? ​So, we say fruit.find(), ​it's a method within strings, ​and we pass in 'na', ​and then Python goes looking through here and says, ​oh, there's an na right there, ​starting in position 2. ​Now, it doesn't say there's a bunch of them. ​Later we'll figure out how if you really want to find a bunch of them, ​you can call regular expressions. More foreshadowing. 
​But you find the first one and it comes back with a number 2. ​So, the position is where the na is positioned within the banana is position 2. ​But that's actually the third letter, so don't forget that. ​If you look for something that's not there, no z, ​you get back -1, so that's our little indicator, ​or our flag that basically says, did not find it. ​OK? So that's the find operation. ​We already have played with the uppercase and the lowercase. 
​There is an upper that is effectively shouting. ​Remember that greet doesn't change. ​There's a lower that goes all to lowercase. ​Sometimes, I tend to use these when I don't exactly know and I want to do an ​if test to say if here's a string and here's a string and I want to ignore the case, ​I say if the string to lower, ​if the string lower is equal to the other string lower then I know that they're ​both lower. That they match, ignoring case. ​Search and replace. ​So this is an example where we have, ​you know, Hello Bob is in this variable. 
​And we're going to call the replace method inside of ​the greet variable and give it two parameters. ​In this case, we're going to give it an old and a new. ​So that says go find all the Bobs and replace them with ​Janes. It doesn't hurt greet, greet doesn't change, ​it gives us back a copy and in that copy, ​all those characters are replaced, ​so the, what's in nstr is Hello Jane. ​We can replace all the o's with X's. ​So that goes here, and ​it replaces that and replaces that. ​Of course, greet's unchanged, ​but then we get a copy of it with the o's replaced with X and put that in nstr, ​and so that's where we get Hello Bob with X's instead ​of o's. And it just shows that this is a sort of multi-replace. 
​It goes through and finds all of the o's and replaces them. ​And there was only one Bob, but it would have found, ​if there was more than one Bob, ​it would have fixed all the Bobs and changed them to Janes. ​Whitespace is something that we see. ​The best way to think of whitespace is it's like spaces. ​But there are other things that qualify as whitespace, ​like newlines or tabs. ​There's other characters that you'll find in strings, ​especially if you start reading them from files, ​and so they're sort of crufty bits. ​The way that I think of whitespace is like here's ​something printed out and it's like ​abc def. Well, there's something here, ​and you can't see it. It's like a clear letter. That's what whitespace is. 
​If this were a white piece of paper, ​it would be whitespace. ​It might be a tab, might be a bunch of spaces, ​whatever, it's whitespace. ​That's what whitespace means. ​It affects mostly spaces but there are a few other characters that do it. ​So here we have a string that's got spaces at the beginning and end. ​And strip pulls off the characters from both the beginning and the ends. ​Whoosh, whoosh. 
​It doesn't hurt the original variable, ​it just gives us back a copy with nothing there. ​And we can strip from the right side if we want and then we can strip from the left side. ​And so that's a way of, you know, ​otherwise, you'd be writing loops to get rid of the whitespace like, ​oh, what if there are four characters or, ​you know, four characters in the beginning and I'm going to throw them away? ​Three characters in, throw them away. ​I'd be writing a for loop, ​do this other thing, concatenate these things together. ​It's like you know, why didn't they write a library for it? ​Ah, yes, they did. They did. 
​They wrote a library for it. And so, we're in good shape. ​So, again, these libraries are ​you've got to use them otherwise you'd be writing crazy loops. ​We can ask it's a real common problem to be scanning ​through a file and want to know only the lines that start with a prefix. ​And there is a built-in method called startswith, line.startswith(). ​This takes a parameter, ​what prefix we're looking for. ​And in this case, we get True back because it does start with Please. 
​Does it start with a lowercase p? ​And then we get back a False because, no, ​it doesn't start with a lowercase p. So, ​it is a True/False. ​We tend to use that in the if... startswith(): do something to the line, ​and that way we skip a bunch of lines ​except the ones that start with the prefix that we're looking for. ​Now, let's put some of this together. Some find and some slicing. ​So slicing is the word for using that : operator. So let's take a look. 
​So, here is a big, long string. ​And you're going to see a lot of these in the later chapters of the book. ​We're obsessed with email messages in this class. ​And so here is the first line of a bunch of email messages. ​The format is the word From, space, ​then an email address which includes a name and an @ sign which is the organization, ​a space, and then a date and time which it was sent. ​This is actually a real email message from a real person. ​That's Stephen right there. 
​If you're ever in Cape Town, stop by UCT. ​He's there, that's where he's at. ​I've been to UCT and I said hi to Stephen. ​People who've taken this course actually know Stephen. ​That's crazy, right? ​People who have taken this course are from South Africa and they know Stephen, ​and they walk up and say, "Hey, Stephen! ​You're in Dr. Chuck's lecture." 
​Yes, Stephen. You are in Dr. Chuck's lecture. ​OK, but that's not the point. ​We're learning Python. OK. So, what ​I'm interested in is I want to extract this little bit from here to here. 
​I want to go one character after the @ sign up to, ​but not including the next space. ​So, we're going to take a couple of steps. ​First, we're going to say, OK, ​let's find the @ sign. Where is that? ​Python goes and says, oh, ​that's in position 21. ​So it returns 21 back in there, and so we get 21. ​That's the start. The character after that is where we want to start. 
​Now, the next thing I want to do is I want to say where is the next space after this? ​Well, it turns out in find you can put up a second parameter in, ​and say that's where to start. ​So this is starting here and looking for a space and says, ​oh, I just found you a space starting at the @ sign. ​So down comes 31 into here. ​We have basically 21 to 31, ​which kind of boundary, that gives us the boundary. ​And here's the fun part. ​We want to slice this out. 
​So slicing is like chop, chop. ​So we're going to go one beyond the @. ​So that's going to give us the little u at position plus 1 through space position. ​But it's not really space position. It's up to, ​but not including the space position, ​look how nice that came out, right? ​So up to but not including the space position. ​We get exactly what we want, not extra stuff, ​and we get back the piece that we were trying to pull out. 
​So you'll see how we sort of ​put these things together. ​I must have written this same code 20,000 times in the last 30 years, ​of search for something, ​search for the start of something, ​search for the end of something, ​pull the thing out, search for the start of something, ​search for the end of something, pull the thing out. ​And we'll find that there are actually better ways to do this, ​but this is kind of low-level, ​sort of doing it the hard way in Python. ​So this is just a little bit. ​We're talking about Python 3, ​but some of you may have to work in Python 2 from time to time. ​And so, one of the real advantages of Python 3 is ​that all the strings internally are what are called Unicode, ​which means that they can represent a wide range of character sets. ​In Python 2, strings sometimes have to go through conversions. 
​There are two kinds of things. ​And so in Python 2, there were regular strings and Unicode strings. ​And so, you would indicate a Unicode string by adding this u prefix. ​And these were different. ​And sometimes when you read these from files or wrote those to files, ​you'd have to kind of go through some conversion and it was a little bit weird. ​But the interesting thing is ​that in Python 3 regular strings and Unicode strings are all just strings. ​So, every string inside Python 3 is ​capable of representing all character sets, and that's kind of cool. 
​There will still be some explicit conversion we'll have to do. ​But the conversion in Python 3, ​when we start talking to databases and reading data off of networks, ​there will be conversions we'll have to do, ​but those conversions will actually make ​far more sense than the way you had to do it in Python 2. ​So if you took my class in Python 2 and you're like, ​"Here, use this buffer thing," and you say, ​"Why should I use the buffer thing?" ​I'm like, "Uh,'cause if you don't use the buffer thing, it won't work." ​At least in Python 3, we have a sense of external data coming from outside your computer. ​It needs to be dealt with in a certain way and it's quite predictable. ​So Python 3 does a really much better job on character sets than Python 2. 
​It's possible in Python 2, but it wasn't as easy. ​That's a quick run through strings. ​We talked about the types and searching and looping. ​There's a lot to it. We still haven't done anything ​useful and that's what we're going to do in the next chapter. 