Enough of me talking about definitions. Too many words. ​Let's get to writing some code. ​Let's write our first class. Here we go. ​Like everything, I make ​these things small so that I can make ​them big on the screen and ​they don't do anything particularly useful. ​So don't feel too bad about like, ​why is doing this, ​because really you're just talking about syntax. 
​So the first thing to notice is ​there is another reserved word. ​Def makes functions, class makes classes. ​Now remember, classes are templates. ​Classes are not the thing. ​So you say class, ​then you have the name of the class that you're creating. ​Much like you'd have the name of a function and ​then colon and then there is ​a whole chunk of indented stuff. ​Those two defs are both methods. 
​So methods are basically ​functions inside of or scoped to class. ​The first function is what we call, ​it's a specially name function and double underscore that ​starts and ends the function name is a way ​that Python knows that this has special meaning. ​It also is a way that you're ​not supposed to do these ​unless Python has told you to do it. ​Python tells you, create ​a double underscore init ​double underscore method with a parameter of self. ​That's what Python is going to call when you are created. ​That's a specially named method. ​Self is the actual instance, ​so class is a template to make an instance. 
​What's going on is, ​in the an equals PartyAnimal open paren for close paren. ​That's the act of building ​an instance of PartyAnimal and then ​giving it back to you in the variable an. ​But then as side effect of building it, ​Python is going to call the constructor method, ​the double underscore init double underscore, ​and is basically letting you do ​things in there to set things up. ​We're going to have an attribute, ​in this case x, ​self.x = 0, ​that both defines an instance variable ​or an instance attribute of x and set to zero. ​When we're done there, whatever this class is, ​whatever the object is, has been ​constructed and initialized whatever it is we want. ​Now again, I'm keeping this simple. ​We've got one variable in this, ​one attribute in this, ​and it's x and it's set to zero. 
​Then we have another method, ​and you'll notice that every one of ​these methods takes self as parameter. ​Self is the particular instance. ​We'll get to multiple instances much later. ​If you call the party method, ​we take the x value within this and add one to it, ​and then put a print statement in. ​It's just Python code. ​So you can put print statements in here. ​Most methods don't do printing, ​but we're doing it just so we can see what's going on. 
​At that point, we de-indent to ​the zero indent position and now we're in ​the main code and we say an equals PartyAnimal. ​That says, hey Python, ​there's a class of type PartyAnimal that we just created. ​Construct it, initialize it and give it back to us. ​The constructing happens, then in our init it gets ​called and then it's all set. ​Then we say an.party, ​which means we've got an object now, ​we've got an instance of ​class PartyAnimal and we ​call the party method inside of it. ​Now the thing you'll notice is inside ​the parentheses of an.party is nothing. ​But inside the def party there is self. 
​Takes a little getting used to, ​but you can see that the an.party ​syntax is equivalent to the clunkier syntax, ​but perhaps easier to understand. ​PartyAnimal which is the class dot party which ​says there's code inside of PartyAnimal named party, ​and we're going to pass the instance in, ​the an variable which ​is that instance as its first parameter. ​When party gets called inside of the instance, ​we pass in the instance. ​In that moment an and ​self are pointing to the same thing. ​We'll get to multiple instances later. ​But you get the idea that we define ​the class with a method to ​initialize it and a method will ​call for whatever purpose. ​They both take self as a parameter. 
​X is the only attribute that we have, ​and then an equals party animal constructs it. ​Then an.party calls the party method, ​and we do that three times. ​Let's see how this runs. ​If we're running this, we get it started. ​As it goes down through class party animal, ​we don't see any output. ​Even though it's at that line where it says ​an equals party animal, open print, ​close print, that print statement did not run. ​That's not that different than when we create a function. 
​If the function has a print in it, ​it doesn't run the print until we call the function. ​The top two-thirds of this is ​defining something but not running the code. ​In the middle, before we say an equals party animal, ​all we have done is created ​this party animal template with no output, ​no real execution, it's just ​recorded the store and reuse pattern. ​Then we get down to an equals party animal. ​Then using the party animal template, ​it constructs some data. ​In this case, the initializer creates ​the x instance variable and sets it to zero, ​and the whole class has a party method in it. ​Now, at the end of that line, ​an points to an instance ​of a class or an object with x and party in it. 
​Then we go down the next lines and we ​say an.party. Well, what does that do? ​Well, that adds to self.x, ​and x is changing, ​and when you're in the party method, ​self in that parameter to ​the party method is an alias of an, ​and that's how you get to the instance ​Self.x is the same as an.x, ​and x is the attribute of the instance. ​It goes 1, 2, 3, ​so we call it three times, ​and eventually it prints out three of them. ​Now that we've created this class, ​we've extended Python when we create a class. ​No different than when we create a function, ​we extended, ​we've stored a new thing that we invented. ​It's really a Python capability that we've built. 
​It didn't run code, ​it just is a capability. ​Now we're going to play a little bit ​with the dir command. ​If you recall, the dir command lists capabilities. ​It really is listing methods, ​but it also can list attributes as well. ​Remember that the ones that have underscores, ​those are for Python. ​Underscore is saying, don't ​play with this stuff unless you've been told to. ​The underscore underscore and knit ​is something you've been told to do. 
​You put that in your class. ​But do not try to mess ​with your own underscore underscore add, ​or underscore underscore del item, or whatever. ​But the rest of the operations are ​the operations that we can perform. ​Again, the double underscore is Python signal says, ​don't call this, don't just leave this alone. ​The dir is basically telling ​us what capabilities are in list. ​Now, let's use dir, ​because we made a thing. ​Party animal and list are both templates, ​and then we can make an instance ​and we can ask questions about it. 
​Now what we're going to do is we're going to ​define a party animal in the top. ​Then an an equals party animal ​is going to create an instance ​of the class and call ​the initialization method and give it back to us in an. ​Instead of doing anything with it, ​we're going to be like, what kind of a thing is it? ​Well, it's class underscore ​underscore main party animal, ​which is defined in the file underscore main, ​which is our main program. ​Then you do a dir, ​and you see all kinds of things are in there, ​including party which is a method, ​and x which is an attribute. ​Again, this goes back to Python is self-aware. ​It knows what a party animal is. 
​You've extended Python and you're like, ​what kind of thing is this? ​It knows what kind of thing it is, ​because it's got a template in there. ​It's just reading the template and telling ​you what's in that template. ​Then you can say, what's the type of an.x? ​Well, that's an integer. Then you say, ​well, what is an.party? ​It's like, that's a method. 
​It just seems to know all this stuff about your object, ​just like it knows about lists and other things. ​You're like, you're in the system. ​You're jacking into the system. ​You're creating classes now. ​Python has a bunch of classes. ​You're creating your own class. ​Then the trick, of course, ​is how you're going to use that. 
​Again, taking a look at the dir with a string, ​you see that someone else wrote all this code, ​not you, and then these are ​all the things that you can do to a string. ​Up next, we're going to talk about object lifecycle. ​We really have been talking about ​object lifecycle all along. ​The double underscore and knit ​thing, that's object lifecycle. ​That's the construction and initialization phase. ​But there's a little bit more to object lifecycle, ​and we'll talk about that in the next section. 