I emphasize that one of the key things about variable names is that you get to name them. We have a technique called mnemonic. I think I pronounced that right. The idea is that when you choose a variable name, you should choose a variable name to be sensible. Python doesn't care whether you choose mnemonic variable names or not. The name that you choose for a variable does not communicate any additional information to Python. When you're a beginning student, sometimes if you use variable names that are too good, it's confusing. 
You'll notice as I write, especially in these first two chapters, some of my code uses really dumb variable names, and some of them uses really clever ones. I go back and forth to emphasize to you that the name of a variable as long as it's consistent within a program, doesn't matter, and Python is perfectly happy. Here is a little code. It's four lines of code. Start at the top. Run this line. That says, find a little piece of memory and label it that thing and stick 35 in it. 
Find a little piece of memory, label it that thing. Stick 12 in it, pull that first thing out, and pull the second thing out, multiply them together, and put them into yet a third variable. If you look at these things really closely, they're all unique and distinct, and you do have to look at them very closely. Then you print the third thing out. Python loves this code. Python thinks, great. I don't know why you pick those variables. 
I do not care. All I care is that they're unique. Python really has no opinion about these variables. But if you hand this code to a friend and you say, what is this code doing, they're like, why did you pick such insane variables? Because I have to stare at it and like, the difference between these two things is just the letter Z and the letter P. This one we're printing the P guy out, and this time we're pulling the Z guy out. These two just have a difference of those letters, I think. You could do it. 
Python loves this stuff. To Python, this is perfectly understandable code. To human beings, it is not perfectly understandable code. People aren't going to like you, but Python is going to be very happy. I can't draw a happy snake, otherwise, I would draw a happy snake. This is tacky, bad, not friendly. Let's make it a little more friendly. 
You could choose variable names. To those, Python looks at these two things as, like, they're totally the same. Python doesn't care. But now we can look at it go, oh, I see the first variables A and we're putting that A thing there, and the second variables B, we're putting the B thing there, and then we're multiplying, put them in a C thing, and then we're printing the C thing out. That's pretty nice. This is a little better. At least we can parse it and read it and understand what the code is going to do without having to check to see if these two characters are the same or different. 
That's better, but it's not mnemonic. Mnemonic means that we choose a variable name, that makes sense for what we're using it for. Again, the variable name and Python looks at all these three things as the same. All Python cares is that this matches this, this matches that, and that matches this. But humans are much happier. Now, we understand mentally that the first variable 35 was the hours. The second was the rate per hours, and then we computed the pay, and we printed it out. 
This is really understandable. The problem is for beginning programmers, it sometimes is too understandable. Python knows about payroll? Because if I name a variable hours, shouldn't Python know that that means hours? If I name a variable pay, does that mean that Python knows about this? The answer is no. Python treats all these three as equal. 
Python doesn't look at the name of your variables and think, hey, you just had a bug. What if, for example, I rewrote this code and I said, hours times hours? It's like, wouldn't Python say, hey, that doesn't make sense? In a payroll calculation, why would you multiply hours times hours? The answer is, Python will happily do it because it's not looking at those words. But a human being who's trying to understand what your code is or trying to help you when you're writing code to bug your code, will be very thankful that you chose good names. Now I can look at your code, and if I see you say, pay equals hours times hours, like, why did you multiply hours times hours? 
Didn't you really mean to multiply hours times rate? Mnemonic variables are only for humans. We will later see things that will confuse you when I name one variable friend and another one friends. You'd be like, oh, so Python understands plurals. The answer is, no, Python doesn't understand plurals. It's really helpful to read stuff so that when something has more than one thing in it, you might maybe use a variable that's got a plural in it. Enough about that. 
I think I hope I made my point. These are all the same to Python, but human beings certainly prefer the second or the third. But be careful. After Chapter 10, you'll start using mnemonic variables, and it won't be a problem. But in the first few chapters, you have to worry about it. As I mentioned, assignment statements basically are not like mathematics. Equal sign means equality. 
Assignment statements means arrow. The key thing is you can almost think of this is like, there's a little wall there, and it completely computes this expression, this is an expression on the right hand side, gets that down to a single variable and then writes it into the memory location. That's why it's possible to have the same variable on both sides because this side happens first ignoring this side, and then once this side is done, then it actually puts it into that other side. If, for example, x before this statement started had a 0.6 in it, it like firewalls this part off, and it computes this part here by pulling the 0.6, the old value of x, doing the computation, running through the things, getting the new value, and then after it's got that new value, then and only then does it store the 936 into x, and that overwrites the 0.6 that was in x, and so one side finishes, produces a result, and then it can overwrite. It doesn't mean you have to put the variable on both sides, but it's why you can put it. Sometimes we'll say something like x = x+1. That's our way of adding one to x. 
That's because whatever x is, maybe x is six or something, this becomes a seven, and then the seven goes into x, and then it overwrites it to the seven. We call this increment. We'll see this soon. But that's why you can put the same thing. Now, in mathematics, x = x+1 makes absolutely no sense. But in programming, it is one of the more common things that we do. That gets us through variables and constants. 
Now we're going to talk a little bit more in detail about expressions. 