​So now we're going to move into writing code in Python to deal with XML. ​Now, it's not too difficult because like most of the things we do in Python, ​the first thing we do is a really clever import statement that does most of ​the work for us. ​So this is importing a library xml.etree.ElementTree and ​this ET then becomes, that's an alias. ​The syntax of as is like an alias. ​It ends up being a short form so we don't have to type this long thing. ​Now we're going to, normally we would be reading all of these data with ​urllib and read and whatever and then we would parse it. ​But just to make these simple on one screen I've kept it simple. 
​And so I have a string. ​Now this is a new syntax that you haven't seen before, probably, and ​that's the triple-quoted string. ​So a triple-quoted string in Python is a potentially multi-line string. ​And so that's the beginning of the string. ​The string ends down here. ​The newlines that are here are part of the string. ​Okay, so this is as if we read ​this bit of stuff from here to here in from a file or in from the web. 
​So this is just my way of emulating like a urllib and ​then a read so we can just look at it all in one screen. ​So here's our XML. ​And you see that it's well-formed XML. ​We've got a beginning tag and an ending tag, ​being it's the same stuff that I've been doing. ​So we have to parse it. ​And this is kind of like what we do with HTML and Beautiful Soup. ​We have to pull this string data and give ourselves an object back and ​then work with that object. 
​And so we take this string data, we pass it in to ET.fromstring. ​And what fromstring says is take this string and ​give us back basically a nice tree. ​So to think back to those tree pictures, give us back these trees and ​make sense of it. ​It's still got the same thing like Chuck and the phone number 303. ​All the stuff. ​They're all in there, right? ​It just has kind of constructed this as a internal memory structure ​inside of Python. 
​And that's what we get back from ET which is this, ​that goes into this tree variable right here. ​So we got this tree of information that's properly parsed. ​Now this could blow up. ​This could traceback. ​If you have a syntax error like you didn't put the slash in or something, ​this would fail. ​Say you got bad HTML or bad XML. ​And so that's kind of what you got to do. 
​But when it's all said and done, if this line of code succeeds, ​then you have good XML and you can make sense of it, okay? ​And so what we could do is we can say ​within that XML data, go find me the tag name. ​So that basically is this, tree.find('name') finds me that. ​So if you think of this in a little picture, there is the tag named name. ​And then remember the child tag was Chuck. ​And so the whole tag is this. ​And then to get down and get just this Chuck bit, we say .tx text. 
​So this is this. ​And it's also that. ​So if you want to get the text that's in between the name tag and ​the end name tag, you say tree.find, tag name, and then .text. ​And that text is an attribute of this particular node give me back that thing. ​And if you want to get an attribute, not the text node, you can say, okay, ​go find me the email, which is this, which is this. ​So if you look at the email, it looks like this, email is the node, and ​it has an attribute of hide, and what, yes. ​And there is no text, right? 
​Because this is a self-closing tag so this doesn't exist. ​So we say tree.find('email'). ​That gets us this whole thing, and then we call the get method within it and ​say, get('hide')). ​And that says go find me the attribute named hide within the tagged email and ​so that then gives us back yes. ​So this whole expression, tree.find email .get hide, gives us yes. ​And so that allows us to work our way down in through some XML and ​pull stuff out of the XML. ​And that's what we have to do when we're in a program. 
​Okay? ​And so that's the syntax for parsing XML. ​And if you go online you'll see lots and ​lots of examples of how to pull data out of XML. ​When I'm writing code like this I tend to have to print out tree.find('email') and ​then I get a few things. ​So I tend to these expressions kind of get long as you're working your way down ​a tree of XML. ​And then you find a thing. ​So, don't expect that you necessarily can write this code perfect the first time. 
​You sort to write a little bit, then add a little bit more, ​then add a little bit more, then add a little bit more, and then finally ​you see the thing that you want to get out of your tree of data. ​So you can have either a tag, which is sort of a simple tag that has a child, ​or you can have a tag that has multiple tags. ​And so, we use a different way if there are multiple child tags. ​So, here we have, again, the single, ​the triple-quoted technique where the bigger outer tag is stuff, and there is ​a users tag below that, and then there is a number. ​So the idea here is we have many dot dot dot dot dot. ​Many users. ​User, user, user, we have x equals 7, an id, and ​each user has a little bit of data, etc., etc., etc. 
​And so, now we want to be able to write code that's going to go through ​each of these user tags. ​And so we're going to use the findall method. ​And again, we take all of the text, we pass it into fromstring, ​and we get back an object. ​stuff is a tree of information that's ​parsed and gives us methods and attributes that we can use to go through the data. ​So that's what this does. ​We take it from the outside world to the inside world in Python. ​Now, what we're going to do is we're going to say oh,, okay, ​we're going to call the findall method in there. ​And we're going to search for the users tag, all of the user tags below users. 
​So that's what findall means, says, ​there's a bunch of these under users, there's user tags. ​Find all of them and then give them all to me. ​So what you basically get is these tags, except in a list. Right? ​So these tags are in a list. ​Not just the word Chuck and Brent, but the whole tag. ​In a sense, it's a list that's itself little trees, right? 
​That's a tree. ​That's a tree. ​So this is a list of tags,which is trees with little mini trees of information. ​And so this is a list, it's not a list of strings, it's a list of tags. ​But we can ask how long is it? ​So we'll print how many there are, and then we can loop through them. ​There's just a little list, right? 
​So it's a list of two things, it has a little tree here and comma little tree, ​little tree, so that's what we're going to do. ​We're going to write a for loop to go through that, and ​we're going to have an item that's going to iterate through each of these things. ​I can call that tag, for tag in the list of tags, that would make sense. ​And so item is going to take on the successive values of this list. ​This for loop is going to run twice. ​It's going to run once for this and once for that. ​And that's what's going on. 
​And lst is, lst is that data structure. ​So now when we come in here we're going to have a little tag. ​And so the first user tag looks like this with an x equals 2 and ​then a child tag of Id and ​then a child tag of name and the first one is going to be 001 and Chuck. ​So item is going to point to this. ​So we can then do those same kind of things. ​We can say within item find the name tag so that grabs this bit out and ​then go grab you the text. ​So that this bit prints out Chuck. 
​The same thing for go find the Id tag. ​Go find the Id tag and then go grab the text field so ​that's going to print out 001 and we can go get the item and ​then there is the attribute that is directly under it. ​And then the loop runs again and so it's now pointing at this bit right here. ​So item is now pointing to that tag. ​And it says go find the name tag and find the text. ​So find me the name tag and then find me the text within the name tag. ​And that prints out, then it runs this line. 
​Go find me the Id tag. ​Go find the Id tag. ​Find the Id tag and then grab the text out of that, so ​009 is going to print out there. ​And then from the original tag go find the x attribute. ​That's what item.get("x") is. ​And so that's going to be 7. ​So that's what we're going to get there. 
​So that's going to pull that out. ​So in those two examples, I've shown you how you sort of dig through a tree or ​loop through a list of trees. ​So that was a list of trees. ​Tree, tree, those are the two basic things that you ​tend to do when you're parsing XML. ​Is either cruise down a tree or get a list of trees and then cruise down those trees. ​And sometimes you have lists within lists and ​trees within trees, and it can be very complex. ​And your programs can get complex but sooner or ​later you get them working and this is why the schema is so important. 
​Because once your code works and if they change that structure your ​code tends to blow up badly and so you want to yell at the other person. ​Say like, why did you change the XML? ​And they're like, well I didn't change the XML. ​And you're like wait, here is the schema that proves that you changed the XML. ​That kind of gets us through XML, and there's a lot of challenges to XML, ​XML is a very rich way to serialize data. ​Up next, we're going to talk about a more lightweight way to store data called JSON, ​or JavaScript Object Notation. 