Now we're going to do our first programming code. Now, the pattern that's going to happen in here is a pattern that I call, and I was taught 25, 30, many years ago, input, processing, and output are the essential things that computers do. They gather some input, maybe from a file or from a web service. They do some work to it, and then they produce something in workout. The work is the hard part, usually. This program is our first program that demonstrates all three of those things, input, processing and output. It's a three line program with one comment. 
The problem that this program is trying to solve for those of you who have traveled in the US and traveled everywhere else is that the ground floor in hotels in most of the world is the zero floor. The ground floor in United States is the one floor. So you might find yourself in a European elevator asking what is the equivalent United States floor to this floor that I'm sitting on. So if I'm on floor 7, what would be this floor if I was in the United States? That's the problem we're going to solve. Now, it's probably not going to make us rich if we build an app for this, but perhaps someone can get the European elevator converter app into some app store, and maybe you will get wealthy after all. But for now, it just is sufficient to teach us about a full blown program that does input processing and output. 
It's as simple a program as I could make. So let's take a look at it. A comment. Convert elevator floors. That has nothing to do with Python has to do with you or me reading about this. Then input. Well, remember, input prints out the prompt and then pauses and waits. 
Then we type the enter key. Then this zero, this is a string. The string ends up being input in the variable inp. Then it continues to the next line, and it works on the right hand side. We're going to pull this string zero. We have to convert it to an integer. Otherwise, we can't add one to it. 
If we just int plus one, we'd get a trace back. But we say int of inp, convert it to an inger. Now, if you mess this up and put Bob in, then this thing is going to blow up int can't convert Bob to an integer. But because we have a zero here, we're okay. Then we add one to it and store that in USF. USF, mnemonic variable name, United States floor imp the input we got from the user. I'm using good variable names here. 
So we store this in. That becomes one. Then we print out US floor, USF. Remember, the coma produces this little space down here. We have our input processing and output in a way that builds us an application. Now, there's lots of things left to do, and most programs aren't one line long, and there's a lot of work that we're going to have to learn, but this gets us a start. We've talked a lot of stuff. 
We talked about constants. We've talked about variables. We've talked about reserved words. We talked about type. We talked about mnemonic variable names, which are both wonderful and a little confusing at the same time. Operators, operator precedence, focus a little bit on division where we talk about Python 2 versus Python 3, type conversion and comments, and then writing an entire program. Up next, we're going to start talking about conditional execution using the if and else and other of the reserved words. 
This is where some of the intelligence starts to seem to come into computers. Up next, conditional execution. 