We're going to combine everything in the previous lectures, and we're going to actually make our first program. Before we make this program, we need to talk a little bit about documentation. We talked about mnemonic variables as a friendly thing for humans. Another thing that's a friendly thing in programs for humans, and you will tend to realize that the human that you're being friendly to when you're writing code and you're doing it well, is yourself. Good variable names are going to help you a lot. They might help your teaching assistant, but they're also going to help you. Comments. Comments are a way for us to add text that's ignored by Python to our programs. 
It's a great way to give a little idea what's going on in code. Maybe there's a couple of lines coming up that are 10 lines long, that's a little complex, and you want to say, all this is really doing is reversing the order of these two things, or who is what? Or you might document who wrote the code, and you can actually just take a line of code and put a pound sign in front of it, and then instead of deleting the line of code. Sometimes you do that for debugging. You add debugging code, and then when you don't want the debugging code, you just put a pound sign in case you want to take the pound sign out to turn the code back on. I use it as a way to turn it off and on lines of code. Here is our word frequency that we keep coming back to. 
What I've added here, is I've added four comments. I've added comments that basically help us understand what's going on. Remember, I call these like paragraphs. Our first paragraph has human readable code, human readable text. Get the name of the file and open it. That's what's going to happen in the next two lines. These next five lines are count the word frequency. 
Maybe I should say make a histogram. Make a histogram, and you can just read this. Again, don't think of this as like the teacher is telling you that you got to write comments, think of this is like, I'll write comments, so I remember what I was doing here. Why did I write this code? Write the comments to help yourself out. Now here the last thing we're all done, and we're printing the stuff out. That's comments. 
It's an important part of documenting your code so that you can figure it out later. Again, the human who's going to like you for doing all this stuff is you. This is you and you're giving a gift to the future you. You are writing comments so that the future you can read the comments, because in a day or a week or a month, you won't quite remember what you were doing, so go ahead and write comments. But don't write them because I said so, write only the ones that you find useful, and don't do something like X = 1 pound sign, put 1 in X. That's silly. Everyone can figure out what X = 1 means. 
You don't put silly comments in just for silliness. You just put them in, especially when you have to understand what's going on here, so that people don't have to read quite so detailed. One of the things they would do is they would read this and check to see if it really did what you said it was going to do to help you debug it, for example. That's comments. Documentation, very important. 