​So welcome to Chapter 7. ​This is the payoff. ​I hope at the end of this chapter you're like, I get it. ​I understand why we had to learn all that other stuff. ​Because we're reading files. ​So, everything we've done up until now has been sort of just if a tree falls ​in the forest, if a variable gets set in a computer and no one reads it, ​did it really happen? ​Or if a tree falls in the forest and no one hears it, did it really happen? 
​So that's kind of what we've been doing so far. ​We've set x equals 3 and then asked when we print it back out, ​did we do this, whatever. ​So we actually haven't done anything that touches the real world, ​I guess we did help people get out of lost elevators, ​but other than that, we haven't done much interesting at all. ​And so, that's because what we are doing so far is practicing, sending ​instructions to the central processing unit and getting stuff back and forth. ​And so all the variables, like your x and y and fruit and letter, ​they all live in here. The code gets run in here. ​And so we're just kind of doing this over and over and over again. 
​This is the first chapter. ​And of course, we did go read some stuff from input. ​And it comes back in. ​And we did print some stuff to output. ​So that we've done that. ​But now, we're going to start working here. ​Because this is where the permanent storage is. 
​And later we're going to talk to the network, talk to the data band log, ​and later we'll talk to database. ​And so these are the kind of permanent storage things. ​And so everything we've done up to now has either been to the keyboard and the screen, or ​just inside the computer. ​Because that's what we've been learning how to do basically things. ​But now we're going to do things to something, and ​that is to a file or to something. ​That's where it gets interesting. ​And so we have these files and the files we're going to play with initially ​are what are called flat text files. They are files that consist of lines. 
​And the file we're going to play with is called mbox.txt or mboxshort.txt. ​And you'll notice that this first line is the exact line that I played with at ​the end of the strings chapter. ​This turns out to be a standard format called a mailbox format. ​And this is when you sort of take a mail program and you export a folder or ​a subfolder of that mail program into a flat file. ​This is the format that you get. ​And so it turns out that it's somewhat useful and it's quite common to have to ​write programs to scan through email and look through stuff in that email. ​So that's what we're going to do. 
​And so these text files, these flat text files, ​meaning that they're not like a word processing document, or a PDF, or ​something like that, they're just a set of lines that a program can read. ​Every program that you've written when you're writing Python programs are also ​flat text files, they just happen to end in .py ​And so here is a sequence of lines. ​It's some characters, and then a newline. ​It's like you hit the Enter key, and then there's more characters, and ​then you hit the Enter key, and then it goes back. ​It's like a typewriter, type type type type type, Enter key, type type type. ​And then it goes back, etc. ​And so it's a series of lines... 
​And so before we can work with a file inside Python, ​we want to tell Python that we're going to work with that file. ​This is an act we call opening. ​It's not actually reading the file. ​It's just making the file available to the code that we're going to write. ​And so the function that we use is a built-in function in Python, we pass in ​the name of the file and whether we're going to read it or write it. ​If we leave this out, it's going to be read. ​And then it gives us back what's called a file handle. 
​So an example bit of code is open mbox.txt, so we can read it. ​And then give me back the file handle. ​File handle is not the data, it's just a way to get at the data. ​And we'll see this later, we'll end up with these handles or connections, or ​sockets, or whatever. ​That they're not actually the data, but a thing we can manipulate. ​So, this handle is something that's sort of ​a porthole between your program and this file that's sitting on the disk. ​And we can open it, we can read from it, we can write to it if we want. 
​And then we can close the handle and the handle goes away but ​the handle is like our connection. ​And so if you just open a file, this is for ​read because I forgot that second parameter. ​I didn't put it in. ​I print it out and it is not the actual lines. ​It says this is a file, and it's a thing. ​And that's what its name is, we're reading it. ​And as we interpret the data coming out of the file, ​we're going to use the UTF-8 character set to do that. 
​So it's telling us something but it is not the actual file. ​There could be hundreds of thousands of lines of data in that file. ​If you try to open a file that doesn't work, ​that's not there, not surprisingly, we get a traceback, okay? ​And later we'll see how to use a try and except to deal with the fact that ​sometimes files don't exist and you want to know that. ​Now, an important character that we haven't played with much, ​that's going to kind of rule your life when you deal with files, ​is what's called the newline character. ​And so here is the newline character. ​In a string you go blah blah blah blah blah, \n. 
​And so if you print this out one way, which means you just type it here. ​It shows you the \n, but ​if you run it on a print statement, it actually interprets it and treats that as ​a nonprinting character that basically moves to the beginning of the next line. ​So that's what the newline does. The newline is not two characters. ​We represent it as two characters in a string, but inside the string, ​inside Python, it's really just a single character. ​So if we say x newline y and we store that in stuff. ​So newline. 
​We print it and it shows this, but if we ask how many characters are in it, it says ​there are three characters because that's character one, two, and three. Actually ​It's zero, one, and two. ​But whatever, that's three characters. ​It's not four characters. ​So the newline is one character, not two. ​But we represent it when we're typing into Python, we represent it as \n. ​So, if we think of this file as a sequence of lines, ​we sort of visualize it this way. 
​That's line one, line two, line three, line four. ​But actually what's going on is it's actually a long string of characters, ​which are punctuated by newlines. ​And so these newlines are really in the file. ​Go back to the beginning. ​It's like hitting the Enter button. ​This is that, it remembers the Enter button. ​It's not like it's magic, ​there is an actual character that represents the Enter button. 
​And these sometimes on different operating systems, ​there are different versions of this. ​There's the UNIX, the MS-DOS, but at the end of the day, in these files, ​there is a character that says go back to the beginning of the next line. ​And even a blank line ends up, so it's like newline, and then ​it's newline again and that gives you a blank line. ​So, if you take a look here, ​this blank line has really got a character that you don't see. ​It's a nonprinting character. ​Remember when we talked about whitespace? ​Newlines are whitespace. 
​It's things you don't see, but exist. ​Right? Things you don't see. ​You just have to believe that they're there. ​You have to believe there's a newline there on that little line. ​So after a while, you don't need to imagine these. ​Just remember that newlines are there and ​the other thing that's interesting that the print function, we print something out. 
​It automatically sticks a newline at the end for us and there's a way to tell ​print not to do that, but by default print actually prints out... and ​then it puts the newline there on purpose. ​Okay, so that is how files are structured and ​where we store them inside the computer. ​And up next, we're going to take a look at how we read files in Python. 