​So it might be amazing that we can use sockets to write ​a ten-line program that retrieves a web page, ​but, hey, this is Python. ​We're trying to make this as easy as possible, ​we don't want to repeat ourselves. ​DRY — don't repeat yourself. ​So there's another library that wraps that socket stuff and does it for ​us automatically, called urllib. ​And so it's a bit longer to type. ​We're going to import some stuff, we'll do a urllib request open. ​So we import some, ​some library bits and then we say, okay, urllib.request.urlopen. 
​That's a string, not bytes, ​if you remember from the last one. ​Here's just a plain old URL. It's going to parse the URL. ​It's going to figure out what server to talk to, ​what document to retrieve, ​what HTTP version, that GET request, all that stuff. ​It's inside it because it turns out that it's the ​same for every time you're going to do a web request, right? ​So why not write code to do it. ​And so this opens it up and returns us back a file handle. 
​It's kind of like a normal old file handle that you would if you opened a file. ​So this is, this line right here is almost the same as open for a file, right? ​It gives us back a handle. ​It doesn't actually read the data, ​but it gives us sort of an opening so that we can run the reading. ​Now a common thing to do, ​certainly not the only thing we can do, ​is to run a for loop for line in this handle. ​So that's going to iterate through all the lines of this URL. ​So that's going to open the URL, read the data, ​and iterate with a for loop once through each line. 
​Now, this line iteration is actually a byte array, not a string. ​And so we do have to do the decode to get ourselves a string, ​so this gives us a string version of it. ​And then we'll do something like, you know, ​rstrip or strip or rstrip or whatever it is we want to do it. ​But at this point we've got ourselves a string that is all the lines of this stuff. ​And so that's like really simple, right? ​This is what the output would be. ​It's going to open this thing up. 
​Now you'll notice the headers aren't here and it just shows you the data. ​So you'd know that there were headers, ​then turns out URL open ​eats them and remembers them, ​and you can actually ask for them later. You can say, "hey, ​give me the headers" if you want, ​but most of the time you're not interested in the headers. ​It just skips down to the data and it goes through the for loop four times, ​and prints out the four lines that are in that file. ​So that's pretty impressive because it's ​like four lines of code and we're reading a web page in Python. ​And that's probably the easiest in any language that I know of to do that, ​to actually get the data off of a web page and just treat it like a file. ​So that's I think really and truly ​amazingly beautiful and simple, to take this whole internet, ​knowledge, architecture and HTTP and all that stuff, ​and roll it into one import statement and three lines of code. 
​And so it treats this like a file. ​And so if you start thinking about this, ​you can think about instead of doing open statements, ​you do urlopen statements, ​and then you write whatever loop you would write, ​and then you can handle data on the Internet. ​So this is no longer a web page, even though you can hit that URL. ​This is like a file on the Internet. ​it's an Internet file as it were. ​And then what we do is we open this thing up, ​and then we, you know, ​make a dictionary like we did before. ​And then we read through it, and then we get each line. ​And the only thing we have to do a little different because this is coming from ​that outside scary UTF-8 world is we do have to decode it before we get it. 
​The line is a byte string as compared to a character string. ​So the decode says, ​give me the byte string and turn it into a Unicode character string. ​But then all the string methods work on it because that is, ​gives us a string. ​So we just split it, but now they're all strings. ​You only do the decode once. ​It's like the first moment you touch that data and pull it in ​you decode it and then pretty much you work with it, ​from it with a string from that point on. ​And now you have an array of words and you iterate through the words in the array, ​and you do the count thing, and then you print it out. 
​So the only real lines that changed were these two lines and we had this little decode. ​But other than that, this is identical to opening ​a file and reading through all the words in the file and counting them up. ​And again, that's why we like to use Python to go get web data. ​Now we don't have to just read text files, ​we can read HTML files. ​Just tell it, go give me that HTML file, ​and then write a loop. ​So now we have basically built a web browser in ​four lines of files and this will print out that content of the web page. ​Again, remember, the headers are there but they don't come out in this for loop, ​you have to ask for them in a different way. And so that's it. 
​And if we want to write another loop where we actually read the stuff, ​and we go look for href equals quote and then pull this out, ​perhaps with a regular expression on a split statement or some kind of find operation, ​because we're good at strings by now. ​We're good at tearing things apart. ​If I gave you an assignment to go look through pages like this ​and find things that look like href is equals h, ​I say, oh here's your assignment look for href equals double quote, ​and then some stuff, and then that, ​and pull this stuff out. ​And then what you do is you go back up and ask for that link, right? ​So here's another link. Go ask for that link. ​OK? So you could write a program that pulled down a web page, ​looked for all the links in that web page, ​and then pulled down all those web pages and on and on and on and on. 
​And so then you have written Google. ​You've written a Python program. I'm guessing, ​because Python is a very popular language at Google and so I don't know if it's true, ​but I'm going to guess the first WebCrawler was, ​you know, a few hundred lines beyond this. ​And by the end of this class, ​if you keep on going, ​we'll actually write a Python web crawler ​using a database and a whole bunch of other stuff. ​That's a really tiny light version of what it is that ​Google is doing when it's trying to make ​a full copy of the entire Internet on its own servers. ​So up next we're going to talk about how you can more ​efficiently take apart the HTML and look for various things and print those things out. ​Because it turns out that HTML is so ugly and so ​inconsistent that things like regular expressions don't always work very well with HTML. 
​So we'll talk about some techniques for parsing HTML next. 