Okay, so we started by just moving data back and ​forth, and now we're starting to talk about fancy syntaxes, ​and contracts, and different serialization formats. ​And where we're ultimately going is, you end ​up with these applications that provide a service to the rest of an application. ​So, in a way you would start building applications up by parts and pieces. ​And probably the best example of this is ​if you go to an airline web site and you're booking an airplane, ​as soon as you're done they'll say, do you want a car, or do you want a hotel? ​And you think, well how come the airline, has cars and hotels, and ​the answer is they don't. ​They just have connections behind the scenes using web services, ​to car and hotel systems. ​And if you start searching, they take your search, and send it to the hotel system, ​and get a bunch of JSON or XML data back, and show it to you like, whoa, ​the airline knows something about cars, and it knows how much the cars cost at ​this city, one of 10,000 cities around the world or whatever. 
​And so, what happens now is this is called a service-oriented architecture or, ​a service-oriented approach, where basically, you're the hotel reservation, ​and you have a web site, but you also give out a service, and ​then other systems can sort of work with your service. ​And you'd be surprised, there's money going back and forth, and ​so if you're booking hotels from an airline site, ​the airline gets a little kickback for bringing a customer to the hotel. ​because the hotels want customers, and if the airline brings hotels, but ​then there's this service, and then somebody has to, the airline company ​person has to write some code that reads the data from the car rental company, and ​back and forth, and so everyone has to figure all this stuff out. ​And we talk about these things in the form of APIs, ​application program interfaces, which are ways to use web ​protocols to access data on systems, using well-defined and structured approaches. ​And so the idea is, we start with two systems, and we're just like, ​okay, we have this problem, we're going to break it into two, ​we're going to write a protocol between these. ​And then what happens is, it goes from two systems, to like five system, to whatever. ​And then you end up with these systems that will end up with lives of their own, ​and the overall system that we see as end users ​are the integration across many of these systems. ​And I've got a video that I'll show you next, ​that shows how this evolution happens. 