​Now we're going to get to the heart of the matter. ​We're going to actually write some SQL, ​and we're going to make a database. ​Hopefully by now, I've told you a couple of times, ​install the SQLite browser. ​If you haven't, do it. ​You could also write a Firefox plugin ​that can be used to manipulate SQLite databases. ​I used this before SQLite browser ​came out with our newest version. ​Everything I'm going to do could be used by either one, ​and there might even be a way to do it with ​a SQLite admin tool if you've downloaded a map or an XM, ​so it doesn't matter. 
​You just need some piece of ​software that gives you a place to type SQL. ​You hit a go button, and it sends it to ​the database and comes back. That's all you need. ​This is what it looks like SQLite browser. ​Let me go ahead and start this thing up. ​SQLite browser. There we are. 
​Database browser for SQLite. ​What it basically does is, ​this is going to read and write a file, ​and that file that it's going to read and write is in ​a very specialized format that's highly ​optimized for rapid retrieval and rapid storage of data. ​We'll start by saying new database, ​and I'm going to pick a place on the disk. ​I will put it in the desktop ​and probably put them for everybody, ​databases and I'll call it SQL1. ​That'll just be the name of the database. ​Now, it's writing to a file. ​This file is not something you should read ​using anything other than SQLite Library. 
​It's a funky looking file, so we're going to save it. ​It's asking us if we want to create a table, ​I'll just hide that thing. ​We have no tables, no indexes, ​no views, no triggers, no nothing. ​We have a place that we can execute SQL. ​When I said you're a database administrator, ​we got a file back there called SQL1 ​that everything we do is ​actually reading and writing to that file, ​but we don't write code to touch that file directly, ​we always are using the SQL Light library. ​We're up, let's create a table. ​Now, this is our first SQL. 
​Create table and then the name of the table users. ​I'm just going to use uppercase. ​Upper, lowercase generally matters. ​There are a few weird situations ​where it doesn't matter, ​so just pretend that case matters in this situation. ​It teaches you something right away about SQL. ​SQL is designed to be somewhat conversational. ​The keyword CREATE TABLE ​is like one keyword. We're creating a table. 
​Then the name of the thing, ​and then a parenthesized list ​of the fields and then the types of the field. ​That's what we're dealing with. ​This is CREATE TABLE named users, ​and we're going to put two columns into it, ​and one is a variable length character, ​up to 128 characters, ​an email that's also ​a variable length character up to 128 characters. ​This is our schema. This is our contract. ​We're saying, these are ​the only two things we're putting in this table. ​We can't put a thing called age in the table. 
​We can't put a thing called ​favorite beverage in the table. ​We can't put 129 characters in the name column. ​We can put zero or one or two or 127 or 128. ​That's just fine. But we can't put 129. ​This is a contract. ​The database, if we want to put longer characters in, ​we just say, no, ​we want to put 1024 in., ​and then the contract will be we could put up to 2024, ​and if we put 1025, the database would be mad. 
​Like, Why do you do this? ​Why is the database so obsessed about this? ​The answer is, as it lays ​the data out on this disk drive ​and it wants to get to it fast, ​it really is helpful to know the maximum size. ​Because if you say, this is only going to ​be four versus 4 megabytes, ​it might lay the table out differently on the disk. ​You don't need to know that. You just ​need to be explicit about the contract. ​This is part of making the data model, ​figuring out in advance ​the data that you're going to use, ​how you're going to use that data, ​and then you communicate that to SQL, ​and then you don't worry about ​all the magic that makes that super fast. 
​This is the contract that ​you make so that your data is really fast. ​By being very explicit about your data, ​you get in return, the database does ​a lot for you and does it really fast. ​Now I'm going to go into my little SQL window, ​and I've pasted in that create table statement. ​Different user interfaces will have different things, ​but they all have a window, ​and you all put some database stuff in them, ​and then you hit this Execute button. ​It's a little play button and ​this one might be something else in yours, ​but at some point, you go, do it. ​Down here, it says, query executed successfully. ​Create Table, yada. 
​Now if we take a look at the data, ​we see that we have one table, ​and the table is named users, ​and there's name and email. ​If we pull this over, we'll see that the VARCHAR is 128. ​The database knows the contract that we just gave it. ​That's your first SQL command. ​Your next SQL command is ​and you probably should ​just copy and paste the stuff off the slides. ​It's what I'm doing. There's your table. 
​We're going to put some data into it. ​Let's go ahead and do that. ​We can put a new record in there. ​We can say, Chuck csev@umich.edu. ​We can say another new record. We can say Colleen. ​We'll call her vlt@umichedu. 
​I want it. So the sort write edu. ​Another record. ​We'll make this be Sally sally@umich.edu, ​and then we'll have another one we'll call, Fred. ​fred@umich.edu. Now, it turns out that everything we're ​doing is actually running SQL, ​and I'm going to finish that. ​If you take a look here at the SQL log, ​you can see all the SQL that's going on right here. ​Just insert. But let's ​leave that alone for now. We'll just hide that. 
​But that's what's going on right now. ​We made a table, and it now has four rows in it. ​We're going to do some SQL. ​We've done the create, now we're going to do ​some inserting and deleting and retrieving of the data. ​The first thing we're ​going to do is insert another record. ​Now, what we were just doing in ​that user interface was exactly this. ​Here is another example of some SQL where ​INSERT INTO is like a single keyword. 
​The name of a table, a parenthesized list of the columns, ​and then the word VALUES. ​That's just part of SQL, ​and then a parenthesized list ​of the corresponding values. ​Kristin is the name and ​kf@umich.edu is the email address. ​That is a SQL statement ​that inserts a new record into our user's table. ​We'll just cheat and grab this, copy it, ​and then go to the SQLite browser, ​and we will go to Execute SQL. ​I will get rid of ​the create table because we already did that ​and just type in insert users with that parenthesis. ​It's doing syntax coloring for me, ​which makes it very helpful. 
​Then if I got the right SQL. ​Let's just say I make a mistake. ​Let's just say I call this ZAP instead of VALUES. ​I will run this and it'll go like, ​ZAP is a syntax error, ​and so it does talk to you, and ​then you can go fix that and say values. ​It's actually helping me, and then I can run that, ​and then it says, success, ​and I go back and look at my data structure. ​I'm going to browse the data, and there's Kristin. ​The insert added another row. 
​Pretty simple stuff, isn't it? There we go with that. ​We inserted another row with Kristin in ​it. Now we can delete a row. ​We say delete from, which is, ​again, kind of like a keyword. ​DELETE. It could be DELETE USERS, ​but it's like we're not actually deleting all the users, ​we're deleting something from the users. 
​They add this keyword in SQL that's redundant. ​It's not necessary, but let's us read it a little. ​Delete from users. ​It sounds like words. Sounds nice. ​Delete from users, the name of ​the table, and then a WHERE clause. ​You can put WHERE clauses on ​lots of different SQL statements, ​and that says, don't delete all the rows, ​only delete where this is true. 
​In this case, we put a logical question. ​This is like a question mark and if statement. ​DELETE FROM users WHERE email=ted@umich.edu. ​This could be one row, or there could be ​100 rows that all have that email address. ​That would actually be bad to have 100 rows that had ​that email address if it were a key, but whatever. ​This just says, DELETE ​FROM users WHERE email=ted@umich.edu. ​Let's do that. Again, I just copy this, ​copy, go back to my SQLite browser. 
​I could use the Delete Record button, ​but I'm trying to teach you this SQL language now. ​This is the way to do it. ​DELETE FROM users WHERE email=ted@umich.edu. ​I hit the Play button, and ​it says, Executed Successfully, ​and I go back and I look at the data, ​and, was there no Ted in there? ​I better delete a different one. Let's call Fred. ​Let's call it fred@umich.edu. 
​Now if we do the browsed data, Fred's gone. ​The delete works. That's why I do cutting ​and pasting on this. That's a delete. ​UPDATE allows us to reach in to ​a particular cell or set of cells in a table. ​Many rows or many columns ​or many row column combinations, ​and we just say UPDATE, ​which is the SQL keyword, the table name, ​SET which is an SQL keyword, ​and then the column name, and then the new value. ​The WHERE clause is important because ​without the WHERE clause it would do ​it for all of the rows, ​so the WHERE clause reduces the rows. 
​We have a WHERE clause here that says, ​WHERE email= csev@umich.edu. ​We're really saying is go find the rows that have that ​true and change the column name to be Charles. ​The column named name to be Charles. ​Let's do that one. ​Hopefully at this point, you're ​following along and you're doing your own data, ​because that will be one of your assignments is to ​make a database and turn it in. ​I will say Execute, ​and I take a look at browsed data ​and you see that Charles has ​now changed. So far so good. 
​You see why I really like this language. ​It makes so much more sense than Python. ​But don't criticize Python. ​Don't be hating on Python. ​Python is powerful and flexible. ​This is powerful, but not so flexible. ​We've did a insert. 
​We've did a delete, we've did an update, ​now we have to do a read the R part of CRUD. ​That is SELECT. ​SELECT takes a list of columns. ​That's a column list, ​and star means all the columns. ​FROM is a keyword, ​and then users is the name of the database. ​You can have either with or without a WHERE clause. ​This says, SELECT that really says all ​rows all columns from the database named user. 
​SELECT* FROM Users. ​This will turn out to be one row in our little database, ​but it might be more than one if ​this WHERE clause was true for more than one. ​Let's run those commands. ​Now, it turns out that we're implicitly running ​those commands, the SELECT*FROM Users. ​Every time I hit that browse button. ​Don't do that. ​If I go over here, and when I do browse, ​I could actually see that in SQL log, ​the last thing was that. 
​It's doing a select on our behalf. ​But we're learning how to do SQL, ​so we want to do it the hard way. ​We say SELECT*FROM Users. ​Hit that, and now down here, we see that, ​and we also see in this log as ​the log goes by that it sent that stuff. ​Now, it's also sending more stuff. ​We'll get rid of the log. ​It's too complex, but it's really just SQL. 
​I'm giving you the simple stuff at the beginning. ​That was a SELECT and I can add ​a WHERE clause where email=csev@umich.edu. ​Let's see if I type that right. ​That should show us all those rows, ​but only show the ones for which that's true. ​That's a WHERE clause and a SELECT. ​You can also throw another ​clause on the end of a SELECT, ​you can have an ORDER BY. ​In this case, I'm going to SELECT*FROM Users, ​which is exactly what I did before. 
​Select all the columns from the table users. ​ORDER BY. Again, a two word ​keyword that rolls off the tongue more naturally, ​email, which is a column. ​Sorting is one of the things that ​databases do really well. ​That's because it actually sometimes for sorting, ​it has these things, and ​then it has these little tricks that say, ​that one goes here and this one's the next one, ​and so if you really want it in sorted order, ​I have a really quick way to figure that stuff out. ​But that magic? You don't worry about. 
​That's the database's problem. ​You just say, hey, ​smart database from billion dollar company, ​I would like to order this by email. ​I don't know how to do that. ​I don't even know how to write a sort algorithm. ​I just know that I want it ordered by email. ​Now, do it database. There you go. 
​You see these things ordered by email, ​and if I want to change it to be ORDER BY name. ​Name this time, email that time. ​Turns out sometimes you can just click on this header. ​But we're learning the tough way, ​which is actually not all that tough. ​You can select and you can order them. ​You can have a where clause, ​and ultimately, ​this is the summary of what I've taught you so far. ​An insert into a table with columns values, ​a delete from users where and ​a true false update users set. 
​Select * from users or select* with an order by. ​At this point, you'd be like, wow. ​I needed to go to college to learn this. ​It's like, so easy. It is easy. ​That's why I don't teach you SQL until later, ​so you learn the hard stuff. You're tough. 
​Now I can show you the easy stuff. ​Now, of course, there's some complexity to come. ​But at the end of the day, when we're talking about ​a single table and the statements that are one table, ​it looks like a really big, fast, smart spreadsheet. ​That's why some of you may ​recognize what you're learning ​here. You may say, You know what? ​I've actually been doing this, ​and I didn't realize how smart I was. ​I didn't realize I was doing databases. 
​But we're still just at the basics. ​The power comes with what we're going to talk about next, ​and that's when we have more than one table, ​and we start modeling data at ​the connections between things. ​That's when we really start to show how you can make ​things really fast when ​we exploit the relationships between tables. ​That's what's up, next. 