​So now we move from sort of the SQL and the contracts we need to talk to a single ​table, to linking multiple tables together, ​and this is where the real power comes, and this is where the complexity comes. ​So up until now, it should be real simple. ​When you start a company, we're going to kinda pretend we're going to start a small ​company to build an application to manage music. ​When you start a company, ​you're going to build an application, lots of applications need databases. ​And you need to design the database for your application. ​And often this is very much a team effort with a lot of different ​people with skills. ​Some people worry about the user, end user capabilities, ​some people worry about the performance, etc. 
​And so database design, what I'll show you coming ​here is just the beginnings of database design, but the basics are very powerful. ​And it's something where smart people should take time in database design. ​And so it's a very collaborative process ​and if you ultimately look at the database design for applications, ​we draw these crazy pictures, right? ​And in these crazy pictures we are capturing, ​this is basically multiple tables. ​Table, table, table, table, ​and this particular database is kind of about an events, ​like, you know, reserving the picnic shelter at a park, right? ​What times, who's going to be there, who reserved it? ​All these other things. 
​And what we're starting to show is that how these tables are connected together. ​So each of these little arrows, so this is a table, and ​these are the columns in the table, and then some of the columns are special ​columns that represent relationships with other tables. ​And we're not going to go into all the detail, you can eventually go into some of the detail ​where you see what this little arrow means and that means one and ​this means many etc., etc.. ​And this there's all this fancy stuff and so we'll talk about this eventually. ​But this is sort of like what we're going for, we're going for ​a picture of how we want our application's data to be stored in the database. ​And this then becomes our schema and it's the contract. ​So, we made one thing with two, we made one table with two columns, and ​that was a schema and a contract, but ​now we're going to make multiple tables with many columns and ​some columns that are specifically there to connect from one to another. 
​So if you're working in a large application, you might walk in and ​see a picture like this on the wall. ​And you take a look, whoa, that's really important, that must be really complex! ​And it, for this application, it probably represents ​years of clever engineering to make sure that the application runs well. ​But this is basically how this, I don't know what it is, ​open mecker medical records system, I just kind of borrowed the picture. ​This is how the data is stored in its database. ​And these things can be very complex and ​the project I work on called Sakai, it's probably four times bigger than this. ​But if you zoom in on it, which you can't, but it's just a table and ​some columns and some connections. 
​And then, oh yeah, there's a table, well that one's kind of complex. ​Here's a table, some columns, and two connections. ​So, yes, it looks complex on the surface, but ​ultimately we're just trying to figure out which tables we are going to make, what we're ​going to put in those tables, and then how we're going to connect the tables together. ​And the connections are the thing that make these things so powerful. ​We could just put all these data in one file, but ​then this thing would run like terribly slow. ​And so the trade-off of thinking through how your data is going to look ​is that when you're done, it's fast. ​A lot of times we don't worry too much about how fast your program's going to run. 
​But when it comes to scanning data, ​especially if it's a lot of data, you think about that a lot. ​So the whole idea is to figure out the data that you need to represent, ​and then drawing a picture, and then lines between those pictures, right? ​And the basic rule that we're going to use is ​don't put the same string data in twice. ​So for example, if we have a column of something, don't put Chuck in twice. ​So that's bad. ​So if you have some column and you're replicating the same string data twice, ​that's not good. ​What you want to do is you want to make another table and ​put a Chuck over here and give a number to Chuck like 1. 
​And then put 1, 1, so to indicate that something belongs to Chuck, ​which means you're modeling data at a connection between one table and another. ​We'll go through this in super great detail. ​So the basic rule is don't put the same string data in twice, ​use a relationship instead. ​And the other thing is sort of like model the real world. ​If you have users and tracks and Christmas tree farms and whatever, ​you'll have a table for the Christmas tree farms and you'll have another table for ​the Christmas tree types and you'll have another table for whatever. ​And so often you're starting to sort of build an application and ​so the application that our little company is going to build is an application ​keeping track of audio. ​Our company has decided that people don't use albums anymore and ​aren't interested in buying whole CDs of music. 
​So we're going to sell music by the track. I think this is a great idea, ​and I think we're all going to get rich with this little company. ​And this is the user interface that I invented, or ​I screenshotted from another vendor's. ​But, whatever this is, we are going to this is the program we're going to build. ​We're going to make a track-making thing. ​Now, just looking at this user interface we see some problems right away. ​And often, if you just try to turn this into a spreadsheet, ​these things would become the problem. 
​And the problem has to do with replicated data in columns. ​And so, it's like great, this is all cool, ​until you have the same artist name in the columns. ​That could be once or hundreds, because Black Sabbath has written hundreds and ​hundreds of tracks, and then even in the album column, that's a problem. ​And then it gets even worse when you're in the genre column, ​you're putting the string in a zillion times. ​And if you've been writing Python programs they kind of finish really fast, and ​that's because the only assignments I've given you are tiny. ​But when you're going to do a million or ​a trillion things, the difference between metal and the number 2, 2, ​2, 2, 2, to replicate this is actually very significant. ​Because this isn't just a six, or five character string, this could be a very ​long string, and so in your data you have to allow for very long strings. 
​And so these are the problems right there, all this replication. ​Now it turns out that we have a user interface person in the room, ​and the user interface person we say like, hi, we're a database expert. ​We took a class online and we know that you're not supposed to replicate data and ​the user interface person says, oh no. ​This replicated data, we've done surveys and ​that's exactly what the user wants to see. ​And you can't argue with that. ​If that's what the user wants to see, that's what they see. ​But we still have to write an efficient application. 
​And so that's where we start going through a data modeling exercise. ​Where we say, this is the kind of stuff we want to represent, and this is the kind of ​user interface we want to support, how can we build a really good data model? ​So it's not like you've got to change the user interface to make it good, ​you change the data model then to represent the stuff we want, and ​then construct it in a way that the user interface is exactly what the user wants. ​So the idea is you look at the data that your application is going to look, ​and we've got all these columns, and ​you say is this column represent a thing in the real world? ​Or is it just another attribute of a thing? ​So there's like a thing and then attributes of the thing, or two things. ​And so you've got to go across all of the columns, and so that's what we're going to ​do, we are going to look at all the columns and we are arguing. 
​So right now imagine we're in a conference room, we're sitting around a table. ​And we're going to draw this picture, and this picture looks like the thing, ​it's got little boxes and lines, right? ​We're going to draw a boxes and ​lines picture, and we have a blank screen right now. ​So the first question, actually, in these meetings is commonly where to start. ​Because you've got a lot of stuff. In our example, it's really simple. ​And it turns out that it's not so critical where you start. 
​Even if you start at the wrong place, eventually you're just going to have this web ​of information, and it's all connected, and it'll all work out if you do it right. ​But it does simplify the drawing of your picture if you start at the right place. ​And so, the way I was taught, to start at the right place, was to think about ​the thing that is the most essential to this application. ​What is the one-sentence description of this application? ​And in this application, it's a thing that manages tracks. ​It's not an album-managing thing, it's not a artist-managing thing, or ​a genre-managing thing, it's a track-managing thing. ​And we kind of see that in our user interface. 
​We see that every line is a track. And so that makes it easy. ​The first table we're going to build is the track table. ​And once we build the track table, then we have to look at all the other things and ​say, look, which of these things are themselves tables, ​and which of these things are just attributes of track. ​Okay? And so it turns out that things like numbers, and ​like star is just a number, that's five, these are all fives, ​apparently I only like stuff or hate it, and then this is the number of plays. ​And so you go like oh, that's part of it, that's part of a track, ​that's part of a track. 
​Well, and now we come to the three things that aren't part of tracks because they have ​the replicated data, that's the red flag that says uh-uh, not part of a track. ​So, somebody gets up to the board, grabs a piece of white board and they go like that's ​our first table, it's a track table and its going to have a rating, length, and a count. ​I guess there should be a title in there as well for this column here, so ​we have a title field, title. ​Okay, so now we're good, right? We've got that, right, we've got that. ​The question is, what's connected to that? ​Right? Well,what is the thing that's the next thing to draw? 
​Well, tracks could be connected to artists, they could be connected ​to albums, so let's just say, kind of albums have many tracks. ​So, the next thing we're going to do is we're going to make an album table. ​And we're going to say on our white board, we're just drawing on a board right now, ​we're not writing code yet. ​That tracks belong to albums and now it's kind of easy that what albums belong to, ​well albums belong to like groups. ​Now if you're a music expert you kind of understand that we're oversimplifying ​things, and that's a fine argument to have when you're starting your company, ​but we're going to pretend the world is simple, and that tracks belong to albums, ​that belong to artists. ​So we're almost done with our meeting. ​So we got artists, albums, and tracks, ​and we've drawn a picture. 
​And the question is, where does genre belong to? ​What does genre connect to? ​Does genre connect to an album? ​Does genre connect to an artist? ​Or does genre connect to a track? ​Now you might want to go to your iTunes and go to a track and change its genre. ​Change it to easy listening. 
​Now if the track was, I mean if the genre was connected to the artist, ​I mean this is a album, sorry. ​It means that it would then immediately change all those to easy listening ​because that means that albums have an attribute of what their genre is. ​If it was the same for ​an artist, that means that all your AC/DC would be changed to easy listening. ​And if it was an attribute of track, ​only this one would be changed to easy listening. ​So the question is, when you go into that system and you change one thing, ​does it change all of these based on the album or the artist? ​Well, you can pause and go ahead and do that but, ​I'm going to tell you, it turns out if you change that it only changes one. ​So that actually tells you, in the meeting we're arguing about this. 
​I think it should be here, and I think it should be here. ​And then you say well but ​if you do it this way, that means that it's going to change. ​Then the UI person is like no, no, no, ​we can't have it connect to the album because then our users will be so ​mad at us and blah blah blah blah blah, and we wouldn't make a lot of money. ​So when it's all said and done, you've argued through. ​It took you a lot longer to argue this last bit, this was the hard part, ​to say okay, genre belongs to track, it just does. ​And this is a simple, trivial, ​example of how the data model creates the features of the application. ​So that when we started we saw this big picture, ​that what's in the data model determines what the application is capable of doing. 
​And we have to get the data model right, so that it can all be very efficient. ​So now that we've drawn this picture on the wall in our conference room, ​at some point we have to map this into a database, into a database structure. ​Okay? We're going to figure out how to actually map that ​logical picture that we just drew into a physical picture ​exactly how we're going to represent this in a database. 