We just took a look at the transport protocol, ​which is the lowest end layer in the TCP/IP stack. ​We wrote a Python program ​and in that Python program we made a connection ​with the socket and then connected to ​a particular port on a far away computer, ​and now we're going to actually ​start sending data back and forth. ​We made the connection. This moves us ​from the transport layer up to the application layer. ​The application layer means there's something ​different when you're talking to a mail server ​than when you're talking to a web server. ​There are rules that describe how we talk to them. ​There are the rules of the road. 
​On a telephone call, ​at least in Western cultures, ​when you pick the phone up and it rings, you say hello. ​The person who picks the phone ​up is supposed to say hello first. ​You may not notice this, but that's what it is. ​The person who picks the phone up says hello, ​and then the second person says ​hello and then hopefully you start talking. ​Sometimes if things don't work well, you don't hear it. ​You're like, are you there? ​Or it gets confusing if the phones ​or especially cell phones aren't reliable. 
​This is what we say to phone into phones to ​get our conversation started ​is like the application protocol. ​The protocol that we're going to play with in ​this segment is what's called ​the hypertext transport protocol, ​or the hypertext transfer protocol. ​It's the dominant application ​layer on the Internet and it ​really was invented to retrieve web pages. ​At the moment of its inception, ​it wasn't really thought of as ​like the greatest protocol ever, ​but it has evolved into an amazing protocol. ​What happened was it was so simple that we ​could just layer new ideas on top of it, ​and so we started with this really basic ​simple application protocol and away we go. ​It's a set of rules that allow ​browsers to retrieve documents from the web. ​If you wanted to write a browser, you could, ​you would just have to go read ​the specifications for what ​it is that the servers are going to feed to you. 
​Or if you're going to write a server ​and you want to talk to browsers, ​you would also read that specification for HTTP. ​Again, it's just a set of rules about ​just we know what we're going to do first, ​know what the syntax we expect to produce and ​consume and make it ​so different vendors can work together, ​and it's just a form of standards. ​One of the things that HTTP ​standardized, which was really cool, ​was this protocol of uniform resource locators or URL's. ​We type them so much that we just think of them as like, ​you typed this thing in to ​get this thing on your browser. ​But they actually contain inside them some information. ​Http:// says use the HTTP protocol, ​www.dr-chuck.com says go to ​this host and then page ​/page1.htm says, go get this document. ​Now, it's many years ago in the '90s, ​you had to know all these things separately. 
​But then we just concatenated them all together and ​that became the uniform resource locator. ​Or hey, type this URL into your browser. ​Every time the user clicks on ​something and it wants to get a different document, ​so you have a document, it's got some links in it. ​The HTML has this thing called href value. ​You click on it and then you're telling your browser, ​get me a different page by clicking on it. ​That's the hypertext bit, ​is that in any document, ​there are links that go to other documents ​and these links are the magic of the web. ​There were ways to access data from servers before, ​but the notion of the document that you ​have has links to other documents is a powerful notion. 
​We take it for granted now. ​But it when it first came out in the mid 1990s, ​'93, '94, '95. ​It's like, this is better than things we've been doing. ​Otherwise we'd learn these weird commands ​and did this stuff. ​It sends what's called a get request ​to get the document and then ​retrieves the document and then parses ​the document and then displays it for you. ​This is a little bit of a diagram of how that works. ​You're sitting there, you're looking at ​a web page and you click on a link. 
​I've made it the blue link ​so you click on, it says second page. ​The browser is a piece of software running on ​your computer and it intercepts that click and it says, ​you've clicked on something. ​It looks at what's in the HTML of ​the page that you're coming from to ​say what web server to connect to, ​what port to connect to on that web server, ​and then what document to retrieve. ​Your browser then makes a socket connection to ​port 80 and sends a request called the get request, ​and sends that get request to port 80. ​Then it goes in that web server and the web server ​parses that request and ​figures out what document you're looking for. ​It might run a little bit of software, ​but when it's all said and done, ​it produces on that same socket, a response. ​It sends that response back and ​that response back is in the form of HTML, ​the hypertext markup language, ​which is really tags ​inside less than and greater than pairs. 
​That h1 says that it's a tender 1, ​p says it's the start of a paragraph, ​and then the a tag says that this is an anchor, ​and so it's supposed to be clickable text ​on that next page. ​Then that comes back and your browser reads that, ​and then makes the page show up. ​It reads the HTML, parses it, ​and there's a bunch of rules about where ​you add blank lines and all these other things, ​so that it looks the way that you want. ​That is called the request response cycle, ​and it has to do with when you click, ​it goes to the server, gets ​data back and then shows it to you. ​You basically see Click New Page, ​but there's a lot going on ​behind the scenes when that happens. ​All of the rules of exactly what was sent, ​exactly how it was sent, ​how those strings are put ​together is there's a standard for it, ​and there are a whole series ​of standards, and thankfully, ​they're free and open and available for you to read, ​and while they're long and complex, ​you can look at them. ​There was a group that was formed ​many years ago to start building these standards. 
​They number each one of these RFCs. ​They're called requests for comments. ​That's a bit of a tongue in ​cheek suggestion that even though there is an RFC that ​guides how your browser works ​with millions and billions of browsers work with ​hundreds of thousands or millions of servers and ​their pretty solid ideas that ​there could always be room for improvement. ​There can always be room for improvement. ​That's what the request for comments means is that, ​no matter how perfect we think we've got ​these engineering standards for the Internet, ​they could always be improved. ​If you took long enough time and read long enough, ​you would find this one called RC 2616, ​which tells you something about the HTTP protocol. ​You're writing a browser, ​you're going to read the HTTP protocol, ​you got hundreds of pages to read. 
​It'll take you a while. Probably either just ​download a free browser, then make your own. ​But let's hypothetically think you're going to do this. ​You'll be reading through this, ​and you'll be paging through and paging through, ​and you get to this section and you're like, oh, ​this is what the syntax of ​a request from the client to the server includes, ​with a first line of that message, ​the method to be applied to resource, ​identifier of the resource, and ​the protocol version in use. ​Then we look and we see, oh, ​here's a sample of one of those things. ​GET, G-E-T, ​capital letters with a space, ​and then a URL, ​uniform resource locator, and then a protocol. ​We connect and then this is the line that we send, ​that's a requesting of a document. 
​It turns out that if you have the program Telnet, ​and Macintosh people have ​this and Linux people have this, ​and Windows people can install it. ​Go find how to make Telnet work on Windows. ​What you give Telnet, Telnet is a, ​it's like a prehistoric piece of software. ​The reason they don't have it on Windows is because they ​think it's probably a security hole, ​and they might be right, but they took it off. ​It is a prehistoric thing, ​because it's a way to connect to any port on ​any server in an insecure manner and send stuff to it. ​What you would type on your computer is ​Telnet and then the host and then the port. ​By picking this port, ​I'm saying I want to connect to the web server. 
​It connects up. Now, some web servers ​are impatient because they expect to talk to browsers. ​If you take too long to type this, ​it'll say, you took too long to type. ​You're just a human, you're cheating. ​But if you type this fast enough, ​it might help to cut and paste it. ​You type this exact HTML command, that is, ​exactly the syntax, ​and then you hit an "Enter" here. ​You hit just an "Enter" right there. 
​Then what will happen is that those two lines are ​enough to convince that web server ​to send you a page back, ​and it will send you back two chunks of information. ​It will send you back the headers. ​This is metadata about the file that you're about to get, ​including what kind of file it is, and it says, oh, ​this is just a text slash HTML file and ​then a blank line splits ​between the headers and the content, ​and then the content of the file, ​and then the connection is closed. ​The connection close is not part of the text, ​that just says it got closed. ​This then is that page that is shown ​with some stuff on there and some more links, etc. ​This is the request response cycle. ​Except normally what's happening ​is this is a browser making ​a socket connection and then sending a Get, ​and then getting headers back ​and then getting the body back, ​and then making a pretty page out of that body. 
​This is how real people hack into real computers, ​is they actually make connections ​and they send stuff on those connections. ​There's this famous scene in Matrix 2, I think, ​where Trinity is hacking ​in to the back of the power grid. ​Most of the security movies up to ​that point postulated that security people, ​when they break in, ​would actually break in with these ​really cool user interfaces. ​But it turns out in the real world, ​they usually have really lousy user interfaces, ​kind of like the command line that I keep ​trying to tell you to use in this class. ​This actually is an interesting scene. ​You can go to this URL and take a look at this scene. ​It actually is written using ​actual security cracking software. 
​It was a first of its kind to actually create in ​a movie how people ​really come in the back door of computers and do stuff. ​It's kind of just an interesting thing. ​I'm trying to show you how to become ​an expert in all this stuff., and all this sneaky, ​clever, highly sophisticated stuff, ​often has very simple user interfaces. ​If we're going to do that same thing, ​which is make a connection to a port, ​send a get request and then get some data back. ​We can then do this in Python. ​We started with those first three lines. ​Import a socket, connect the socket. 
​This socket first, when you do the socket, ​it's like this port hole that lets you out. ​It's like a doorway out of your computer, ​but the doorway is not open ​and the doorway is not connected to it yet. ​That's kind of like a Matrix thing too. ​There's a doorway, but what's the doorway connected to? ​There's a couple of Matrix scenes that ​come to mind, all of a sudden. ​Well whatever, that's what this does, ​makes the doorway, but there is nothing connected. ​Then the connect basically extends out of your computer. 
​This could fail if this server doesn't exist. ​So it goes and finds the server, ​connects to port 80 and establishes the socket. ​When this line is done, ​what we have is we have ​a socket and it's connected to a server. ​You do know that the server is there and ​you know that there's software on the other end of it, ​otherwise the connect will fail. ​But if the connect works, ​you're talking, but you haven't sent any data. ​Now you can call methods on ​the socket object now that it's been connected, ​like send and receive, ​to send data across this or receive data from it. ​Now part of the application ​protocol is what do you do first? 
​Do you send to receive? ​Now, it turns out with HTTP, ​the server does a receive first and you do a send first. ​That's the rules. The first thing you ​do is you make up a request, ​and this is just a string. ​Now we have to prepare it for sending. ​I'll talk in the next section ​about how this encode works. ​Prepare it for sending, ​and then we send it, and you'll ​notice there's two new lines at the end of it. 
​Enter enter was what you did when you were ​in Telnet and it was the get blah, ​blah, enter enter. ​Then we have to prepare it and we send that. ​That means that you sent something to ​this server and the server receives it. ​It goes and reads some files and does some stuff, ​and then it's going to start sending data back. ​You can use a wire loop now. ​Receive is a method in the socket object. ​Once you've sent it. It might ​take a couple of sends to get all the data. 
​We're going to just print this stuff out onto our screen. ​We're going to receive up to 512 characters. ​If we get no data, ​that means end of file or end of transmission, ​so we break out. ​Then if we did get data, we decode it. ​We'll talk in a second about that. ​That's taking data from the outside world ​and interpreting what it means ​internally for us. We're going to decode it. 
​This loop is going to run a bunch of times ​until it hits end of file ​and then we're going to close the socket, ​which tears all this stuff ​down because this actually takes up ​resources in your computer and ​the far ends computer as well. ​Mysock.close closes that and that's it. ​That basically is a request response cycle ​in Python and it's only like what, line10s of code. ​That's really impressive that ​Pythons capable of doing that. ​What we'll get for the output of this ​is we'll get the same kind of stuff we got from Telnet. ​It's going to just be this loop that reads ​this stuff and decodes it and prints it. ​It'll be header, header, however many metadata, ​that's the metadata, then ​a blank line and then the text. 
​It's the exact same thing. ​Those Python commands did that same, ​make a connection to port 80, ​send a get request, ​send a blank line, ​wait and read the data and then print that ​out onto our screen and that's what we would see. ​Next, I want to talk to you about ​that encode and decode bit ​because it's kind of important. 