​Okay, so now we know how to open a file. ​Now we have to learn how to read through the file, and ​it couldn't be easier, it really couldn't be easier. ​It's almost at the point where you probably would have ​guessed it if I didn't tell you. ​Well, so xfile. remember, is not the data, ​it's a way to get to the data. It's a sequence. ​Well, we already have a loop, the determinant loop, the for loop, and ​all you do is you put the handle here. ​Now this is not the same as putting a string there, the for loop is smart. 
​This is some kind of a sequence of things. ​So a file handle to the for loop looks like a sequence of lines. ​It's a sequence of lines. ​So again, the for loop is going to run this code multiple times where the iteration ​variable, cheese in this case, is going to take on the successive lines. ​If this file has 10 lines, this loop is going to run 10 times. ​Cheese is going to be the first line, the second line, third line. ​So that's it, that's it. 
​Isn't it pretty? ​No while loop, no end of file, no nothing. ​Run this as many times as necessary, one time through for ​each of the lines in the file. ​You take care all the stuff. ​And if you've done this in other programming languages, you'll be like, ​Python, you are my friend. ​Because it's simple. ​And you can look at it and go like, I know what it's doing. 
​Whereas all the other programming languages have like total gibberish ways ​of doing this. ​And yes, you can figure it out and after you've used C or ​some other JavaScript language or whatever to read a file, Python is better. ​Because Python is elegant and straightforward, ​and it has to do with this for and in clause which I'm so in love with. ​So that just says treat a file handle as a sequence of lines, ​and allow us to iterate through it automatically using the for loop. ​So we can write some smart things, right? ​So a counting loop, let's just do counting. ​So now we actually have something to count where we don't exactly know how many ​things there are, right? 
​If you go back a couple chapters, we were counting things, ​we knew how many things there are. ​But now we don't. ​So, we set the counter to 0, and then we loop through each line, or ​don't do anything with the line, count = count + 1, and we're done. ​We know that this file has 132045 lines, right? ​And away we go. ​So, we have built a line counter, ​a file length counter, just by looping through that. Simple stuff. 
​Now sometimes, not so much when we're doing files but ​often when reading data from elsewhere, we want to read it all. ​And so this time, we will read the whole thing in with .read. ​Now the thing about this is, it doesn't split it into lines. ​It actually just reads all the stuff with a newline, all the stuff with a newline, ​so you've got to be careful. ​But of course if you print it out, ​it will give you all the newlines because the print will show the newlines. ​But you have to realize you've got the whole as one big blob of ​characters punctuated by newlines. ​Whereas the for loop knows to go to the newline and then give you the first line, ​go to the newline and give you the second line, etc., etc. 
​But we can read the entire file, so ​in this case we're reading mbox-short.txt, read the whole thing into a string. ​So that takes all of that file, whatever is on that file and ​takes the characters and sticks them in. ​Then we can say how many things did we get? ​Well, we got 94626 characters in this case. ​And we can just print like with slicing, start at the beginning, ​up to but not including the 20th character. ​So that's really the first 20 characters that we would see ​from that file into a single string. ​And sometimes we'll use that, sometimes we'll write a for loop, ​it depends on what we're trying to achieve. 
​We can search through things, and ​we can show the lines that meet a search criteria. ​So we open this mailbox, we're going to loop through line by line. ​And then we're going to ask if the line starts with From: print. ​So this is going to read the lines, and then once in a while it'll run this loop, ​and then read some more lines, and ​then once in a while it'll run this loop, read the lines. ​So it's like a search operation through the file. ​And then so this is going to, there may be many lines, but then there's a From: . ​And so it's skip, skip, skip, skip, skip, and then prints that one out. 
​So it's a very, very nice way. ​Now, if you run this code, you're going to see that it prints out ​the first From line, the second From line, but the question is, something is wrong. ​We're seeing lots of blank lines. ​Lots of blank lines, blank line, blank line, blank line, blank line. ​It's like, what's going on here? ​Why are they? ​Well, it turns out that the print statement, ​as I mentioned before, or the print function, adds a newline. 
​But, actually, I'm pointing at the wrong newline, the print ​adds a newline, this newline right here, but the file that, ​when we read it from the file, the string, has the newline at the end. ​So this newline is this part, this part is what we read in from the file, and ​this is the newline that was added by the print statement. ​So then we end up with two newlines which leads to a newline ​when there's no characters, means a blank line. ​That's how we end up with blank lines. ​The text from the file did this and ​then the print statement did one more and so then we ended up with new blank lines. ​So how do we deal with this? ​Well, we have a function, a function we talked about in the last lecture, ​called rstrip, which strips off whitespace, ​newlines are part of whitespace because you don't see them. 
​And so we read through. ​We're going to read each of the lines in the file and ​then we're going to grab and strip off the whitespace from the right side. ​So we're going to wipe out the newline that was here on that string and ​then we're going to print it out. ​And print's going to add a newline but now we don't end up with two newlines. ​So you are going to write these lines of code over and over and over again. ​Open a file, read through all the lines, throw away the whitespace at the end, and ​now do something fun and interesting with those lines of file. ​So these three lines you're going to get to know really, ​really well before the end of this class. 
​Sometimes we'll write a if statement where we say if we're ​throwing away most of the lines in the file but keeping some. ​So this case, these are the good lines, right? ​The ones that start with From are the ones we're interested in so ​we're going to print them out. ​Sometimes what you want to do is actually flip the logic, right? ​So in this case, it's a different way of writing this same loop but ​just a little bit differently. ​We do these three lines, that's the same, stripping the whitespace. ​And here what we do is if the line does not start with From, so ​that's the opposite, if line starts with From, this not turns it, flipping it, continue. 
​So this is a way of going back up. ​Remember how continue works? ​Goes back to the top of the loop, so ​all the lines that are uninteresting to us we're going to skip. ​You might want to call this skip. ​That's what we're kind of doing, skip. ​But it's just skip this line. ​Go get the next line. 
​Skip, skip, skip, oh wait a sec, this one became true. ​We found one and so we print that one out. ​And so that's going to produce the exact same ​exact same as the previous one. ​It's just what we're doing is we're skipping the lines ​we're not interested in. ​And then because often and the amount of code we're going to do is quite a bit to ​blah, blah, blah, blah, add some things, parse them in different ways. ​It's better to sort of skip the bad lines and then fall through for the good lines. ​It's just sort of a stylistic thing between this code and this code. 
​It's just a stylistic difference not something really to worry about. ​And so this, again, is code. ​We can do all kinds of things. ​We can look for all the lines that have uct. ​We can use in, right? ​And so we can say if uct is not in the line, ​if not uct in the line, we're going to skip it. ​And so that's going to find the various lines that somewhere inside those lines ​have uct, and print those lines out. ​uct, uct, uct, and so this is dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, there, ​that's the output that comes out of that particular loop. 
​Now often you're going to get assignments from me where you have to do it for ​the long mail box and then the short mail box. ​And so it's good to learn how to read and write the name of the file. ​Read the name of the file from input. ​So we just use input. ​And we say, enter the filename, so we type in the filename, ​that of course is a string that goes into this thing. ​I call it fname, I tend to use that variable over and over, fname. ​And then I open it, get a handle, then I loop through it and ​count the number of subject lines. Right? 
​That's what this is doing. ​If line starts with subject colon, count = count + 1. ​And then it just prints out how many subject lines there were. ​So it's going to count them. ​In the big mailbox there are 1797 subject lines in the big mailbox. ​And if we run the same code again mbox-short.txt, ​then there were 27 subject lines in mbox-short.txt. ​So the idea is this is the different file name. 
​We can teach Python to open file names, instead of just using strings, ​we prompt for the name of the file on input, and then we open that file instead. ​Now, if the user types in a bad file name it's going to blow up. ​Let's say we want to deal with that. ​We can, we can deal with that. ​So in this case we're going to take input and that's going to work because no ​matter what they type, even if it's junk, the input's going to work. ​But the open is going to blow up if the file name is a bad file. ​And so we indent that and put it in a try block. 
​So we don't know if this is going to work or not. ​Of course, if it works, it's going to just keep on going. ​If it fails, if something goes bad here, it jumps to the except block. ​And so in the except block, we put out a message, File cannot be opened, ​and then print out the file name, be nice to our user. ​And then we put this quit statement in. The quit statement says, I'm quitting, ​I don't want to continue. ​Otherwise it would continue down here and ​the quit statement is a function that it goes into but never returns from. 
​And so it makes sure that you don't actually fall through and ​run this code because fhand is not properly defined. ​So it's going to just traceback down here if it runs, so you've got to add this quit. ​So when things are bad, when something is not working, this blows up. ​It runs this code. ​It prints that out and then it quits. ​And so otherwise you get tracebacks down here if you didn't put that quit in. ​You'll get used to this. 
​So when you, ​there's no reason to continue because you didn't get the data you expected. ​Now some of you are going to want to change this so that it's a while loop. ​We'll talk about that later so it re-prompts for the file name. ​Little complex like right now. ​Right now I just want to show you how the try and except can compensate when you're ​prompting the user for a bad file name and you're trying to read that bad file. ​But you don't want to have a traceback, you just want to print out a nice message. ​So that kind of gets us through opening files and looping through files and ​doing something intelligent in the loop and we're going to do a lot of this. 
​We're going to be opening and stripping and looping and parsing and ​doing all kinds of fun things. ​So, coming up next, ​we're going to learn switch gears a little bit and learn about data structures. 