​So, we're about to come full circle. ​We just created these many database tables, ​we've spread things out, we've linked them all back together with these numbers. ​And it seems like we just created a mess of everything. ​But now we're about to bring it all back together using the JOIN. ​We finally have touched the relational power and ​it may seem painful, but this is important, especially when data scales. ​And if what you're doing matters, then data's going to scale. ​You can't say, oh my data is so small I don't need to do this. 
​Well, if you're doing it, and it's big, and you're really doing data analysis, ​and it's like something you're doing professionally, ​you tend not to do small things professionally. ​You tend to do large things. ​So this notion of primary keys, and foreign keys, and ​the little numbers that point to stuff, that's what it's all about. ​So we need to reconstruct, for ​our user interface, the data and reconnect all these connections. ​And the SQL syntax that allows this to happen is the JOIN operation. ​And the JOIN basically says, we are selecting data from more than one table. ​And part of the JOIN operation is the ON clause that says when we want to connect ​one row and one table with a corresponding row in a different table. 
​And so we have this example here of our data, ​where we just want to sort of pull the artist title and the artist name out. ​Except that the artist title is in the album field, and ​the artist's name, because we did this relationally, is in the artist field, so ​we don't have it in one field so we have to pull across two tables. ​So that's where we say SELECT, and then we want the things. ​Now this is a syntax here where you have table name, field name, ​tablename.fieldname. ​The title column from the Album table, the name column from the Artist table, ​FROM, which is the same FROM we've done before. ​Here's a table joined with another table. ​And what we're doing is we're saying, ​let's make a super table that really is the rows of this table, ​as well as the rows from that table, and that's what the JOIN does. 
​It's like, we're not going to one table, we're going to two tables. ​Then, in addition to the JOIN operation ​saying we're going to do all these tables, the ON clause ​decides when we connect a row in this table to a row in this table. ​So row to row, row to row, and the ON clause that we're going to write ​is when the album's artist_id that is from the Albums table, ​the foreign key, the start of our little arrow, is equal to ​the id field from Artist, Artist.id, so it is the destination. ​So, this is the starting point of the arrow and ​this is the ending point of the arrow. ​So, this is the start. ​This is the end. ​So, that's matching, reconnecting all the arrows for all the corresponding rows. 
​Select these two fields, one field from each table, and then we got to ​glom the two tables together, but only connect the rows when this is true. ​For me, I would call this when. ​Some people prefer to write this as a longer WHERE clause, ​some databases prefer that. ​I tend to like using the ON clause, so I don't kind of confuse my WHERE clauses. ​But if you learn the WHERE clause trick, it's the same as the ON clause. ​So let's run this one. ​That's already in there. 
​Oops. ​So I'll run it. ​So here I go. ​I've got the title. ​Oops. I've got the title from one table and ​the name from another table. ​And we joined them all together. 
​And we had an ON clause that tells when they're supposed to be connected. ​Okay? ​So we can look a little more deeply into this relationship that we have, right? ​We can, you know, clear this. ​Look a little more deeply into the relationship that we have here ​by actually looking at all the data that's actually participating in ​the connection between these two rows. ​So here we once again have our SELECT, and ​our FROM clause goes between Album and Artist. ​So we're kind of, this is our super row. 
​From the Album table and the Artist table. ​That's Artist, that's Album. ​And we have the foreign key relationship still. ​And we're going to add to this SELECT these two fields. ​Everything is the same as before, ​except we're going to show you how this connection is made, okay? ​So we're going to select the title, the artist_id, the artist's id, and name. ​So you can see how we're seeing the whole table at this table. 
​These things have been joined together like there's glue in the middle ​between them. ​They've been glued together, and ​they're glued together in the situation where these two things match. ​So if you type that, that's what you see. ​And so that's a way these don't really need to be shown, but ​they are the source of the connection. ​Okay? ​So that's the source of the connection, and by just selecting them, ​you can see what it looks like. ​Okay, so let's construct another one. 
​Let's say we want the Tracks title and the Genre's name. ​And if we take a look at the Track, right, we've got genre_id. ​Now we have some replication here. ​And then we do need to do this lookup, right? ​And we want to see all the tracks. ​Right? All the tracks along with their genres. 
​Right? ​Rock, Rock, Metal, Metal. ​So now we've reconstituted the duplicates. Right? ​This is what the user wants to see. ​But this is what we're storing in our database. ​All right? 
​So again, we say SELECT Track.title. ​That's this thing. ​Genre.name. That's that thing from a different table. ​FROM Track JOIN TO Genre. ​So that makes, ​like, this big blob thing that's a super row, that smears across two tables. ​And then we have an ON clause. 
​And you'd think these are hard to construct. ​But, oh this is the Track table. ​There is a foreign key name named genre_id. ​Oh, and that's going to be equal to tablename.id. ​Right? ​I almost cut and paste these things so fast as I write them. ​And so they get easier and easier and easier, when you're going from the Track table to ​the Genre table, and the syntax that I use for the connection is very canonical. 
​I do it over and over and over again. ​Okay? ​So let me run this guy and there we go. ​We've reconstructed the replication. ​But this also a good time to show you a little bit more ​about what's going on underneath this join, right? ​And now it all seems pretty and simple and this ON clause. ​But what happens if we just take out the ON clause? 
​Select these two things from these guys glued together. ​Somehow we've glued these two tables together. ​So if you don't have an ON clause what happens is it basically says ​all combinations. All combinations. ​So there's four rows here and two rows here. ​So all combination of each row here. ​So this turns into 2, this turns into 2, this turns into 2, so that turns into 8. 
​Now if this had 100, and this had 100, that'd be 10,000. ​And so if you don't have an ON clause it ends up with all combinations. ​And we can show this. ​So this is exactly the same SELECT statement. ​Track.title, genre_id, Genre.id, ​we're adding the middle joiner guys that would have been an ON clause. ​And we're saying FROM Track, JOIN with Genre, and no ON clause. ​Okay, that's the thing that's changed. 
​We added these two columns and we took away the ON clause. ​So let's take a look at what happens when we run this one. ​And lines don't matter, so ​the fact that I put this on multiple lines you will see it doesn't care. ​And so you can add spacing and lines to make your SQL look prettier. ​I do that all the time, I indent them. ​Indenting has no significance, but it is still very pretty. ​So now we see that we're getting all the combinations. Right? 
​1, 1; 1, 2; 1, 1; so Black Dog has got both genres. ​So it got genre 1 and genre 2. ​Because we don't have an ON clause, so it's not interested in matching. ​And so you can think of a JOIN, ​you can think of a JOIN as building ​across both tables all possible combinations between the tables. ​The ON clause is throwing away the ones that don't match. ​Or a better way to say it is it's picking the ones that do match, right? ​We like this combination. 
​We like this combination. ​We like this combination. ​And we like this combination. ​That's what the ON clause is doing, ​is it's picking the ones where there's a match. ​If you don't have the ON clause, then boom. ​All combinations, 1 to 2. ​This is one row and it's being combined with that. 
​This the the next row and we want both combinations. ​This is the third row, all combinations; fourth row, all combinations, ​and then the ON clause wipes out the non-matching ones. ​Whoops, I did it wrong again. ​I keep doing it wrong, but you get the idea. ​So that's the ON clause. ​That's really how it works, and frankly this is one of the things when I first ​looked at, it must be doing that but it doesn't do that. ​When it sees the ON clause it's really clever about pulling things in. 
​Super clever. ​Again, that's not our problem. ​So now it can get complex. ​Because now what we want is the track title, ​the artist name, the album title, and the genre name. ​And this looks like a lot of stuff, but if you follow it, it's a pattern. ​So we have a SELECT, these are the things we want. ​That is the list of the output we want. 
​We're not interested in all the id's. And we have to have this long FROM clause, ​that says, Track join with Genre join with Album join with Artist. ​That's all the rows, all the tables concatenated together, ​and then the ON clause, which seems kind of tricky, but now we start. ​We start from Track and work out. ​We have the foreign key in Track of genre_id is equal to the genre's primary key. ​And the Track's album_id is equal to the album's primary key, and ​there's one more foreign key and that is the Album's artist_id equals the Artist.id. ​So go back to that little picture that we had ​this that pointed to this, that pointed to that, that pointed to that. 
​We just look at this, the picture, and this is why the pictures are so ​important, and we reconstruct all this. ​And so this for me, it may look a little complex. ​But after you do it a few times, ​you realize that the naming convention really, really saves you, okay? ​Let me show you that, select this whole monstrous mess. ​Type her in, and then run it. ​And we've reconstructed it, right? ​Now, we've got replication here, but that's the output. 
​That's the beauty of databases, you reconstruct any replication, but ​you don't actually store the replication. ​And that's why you have to learn to write JOIN clauses. ​So if we think about this, we've gone full circle. ​it's taken us, just like any start-up, ​it just took us like three days to build our product. ​We started with a user interface that we designed that had replication. ​Then we came up with a data, a logical data model, then a physical data model, ​then we inserted all the data, ​we connected things with numbers instead of strings. ​And now we use a JOIN to reconstruct it. ​And so, we start here. 
​We go through a step, a step, a step, a step, and then we come back to here, ​and we're able to reconstruct, in effect, ​the output that our end users are going to want to see. ​Except now we can handle millions or billions of rows, ​because we have carefully constructed a data model that makes sense. 