​Now we're going to move into talking about databases. ​It may seem a little strange to be talking about ​databases in a programming language, ​but we are using ​this programming language for doing data analysis. ​It turns out that it's ​quite often necessary when you're pulling data, ​especially data you're pulling over ​a network where you might be rate limited, ​or you want to store the data in a database. ​You have a process that ​reads the data and puts it in a database, ​and then you can analyze it out of the database. ​It makes some of your processes go really fast. ​It allows you change your analysis and not lock ​your analysis into the retrieval of the information. ​It speeds up your overall workflow, ​but you have to learn a bunch of stuff so that you can ​put the information into your database. 
​Now, the first task that you have is ​to install your database browser. ​There's a couple of ​different ways to read and write these files. ​We're going to use Python to read and write the files, ​but we want a way to read and write the files directly. ​This is a code that you can download for the Mac, ​for Windows, for Linux. ​There's also a Chrome plugin that you can get for ​SQLite that you could do ​everything that we're doing in the class. ​I don't really care how ​you achieve the things you're going to achieve in ​the class because we're going to grade you ​not so much about how you use things, ​but instead, we're going to ​look at the databases that you produce. ​Stop now, download this, install it. 
​It should be simple, should be easy. ​Check with the forms if we have some problem. ​Relational databases are ​a whole subfield of computer science, ​and it might be best to talk ​about what life was like before relational databases. ​You use relational databases ​thousands of times a day without even knowing it. ​If you imagine something ​like a learning management system where ​there's hundreds of thousands of users and ​terabytes or petabytes of data, ​and you log in and within half a second, ​it shows you what you're supposed to see. ​You can't read petabyte of ​data in a half a second. You just can't. 
​In early days, we used to have data that was small. ​Computers that were didn't have a lot of storage in them. ​We tended to use tapes, ​and we would put the data on a magnetic tape, ​and we would sort the data. ​We would have the old bank balances on one tape. ​We would have the transactions, ​and then we would read one balance, ​check to see if that transaction have changed, ​then we'd store the balance. ​Then you would have last night's bank balances ​and tonight's bank balances. ​Then the next day, ​you would put this over here and read ​the old bank balances and make changes. 
​This is how day after day in the '60s and the '70s, ​we would update data. ​If you look at old computer videos, ​you'll see these little spinning things. ​Well, those are tape drives, ​and that's where most of the real data was stored. ​But as computers got faster, as they got more memory, ​and as we started to store data more in the memory of ​computers and on the disk drives, whole different ways. ​It starts with a letter S, ​you didn't have to read through ​all the data from A through S just to ​get to my account that starts with ​S. Then you'd be like, wait a sec. ​We have a disk drive that we can skip all ​away and skip back and skip over here. 
​The problem became how to make use of ​this random access medium in which we can ​store data in a way that's efficient and fast and clever. ​Just because you could randomly access ​the data didn't mean it was fast. ​You still had all the data to look at, ​and if you just looked at it sequentially. ​Relational databases were this ​applying cleverness to how ​we would use random access data storage, ​mostly disk drives that spun. ​It really emerged in the '60s and ​the '70s and whole companies were formed like Oracle, ​that Oracle exists because ​smart people figured this problem ​out before other smart people did. ​They got to form a company, and Oracle is ​the leading database vendor on the planet, ​and much of its revenue comes from ​its database product and ​things built on top of its database. ​But literally, before 1960, ​the concept of database really wasn't an idea. 
​It was something that happened ​as storage and what we wanted to do with computers. ​This is where if you had to ​really read a tape to log into a computer, ​it might take four hours to log in, ​which would be unacceptable in this modern day and age. ​As I mentioned, the database is ​this technology that emerged, ​and it emerged from a lot of theoretical analysis. ​The underlying foundations of database ​have to do with some really powerful mathematics. ​This powerful mathematics still is present in some of ​the terminology that some people ​use to describe databases. ​There's really two parallel ​terminologies that you will encounter. ​You'll pick a book up and ​you'll be able to read it and say, ​this is using the highfalutin hoity-toity language, ​which is the more math-oriented. 
​In the more math-oriented, ​we use the words relation, tuple, and attribute. ​That's the fancy way of speaking about it. ​But we programmers who just do our thing, ​we would call it a table, a row, and a column. ​Now, table and row and column is the wrong way to think ​about it if you're trying to ​understand the true underlying amazing mathematics. ​Don't worry about the underlying mathematics. ​Just be aware as you're reading, ​don't be surprised when people lapse into ​this more fancy nomenclature. ​The idea is that you model data at a connection point, ​rather than like, here's data, ​and we're starting here and we're reading through it, ​the idea is if you model everything as ​a connection like who a person is, ​a person is a connection between this, ​that, and the other thing. 
​This notion of modeling stuff at a connection ​is the underlying math that makes databases fast, ​but when we programmers think about it, ​we think about it as rows and columns. ​Here's just a screenshot of a spreadsheet that I made. ​Along the bottom, you see ​the names of the various subsheets, ​tracks, albums, artists, genres, and titles. ​Those are like the database tables. ​Then each table, if you select it, ​has a row and a column. ​It's got these columns. ​This has three columns in it, ​and it has a bunch of rows. 
​The other thing when you're doing stuff in a spreadsheet, ​you just come up with a data model, a schema, ​a strategy so that you ​know that the first column is always a title. ​Second column is a rating because ​if you didn't label it, it would make no sense. ​We often do something where the first row of ​a spreadsheet is metadata about the columns. ​Now, the spreadsheet doesn't ​exactly know that you're doing it. ​Even though some of the things you do, ​sometimes it sorts and says, ​check this tick box to say the first row is title. ​Don't sort it. ​When you sort stuff, ​you only sort the bottom part of it. 
​It knows that the title, ​but in a database, ​this becomes what we call the schema. ​All these titles, and we have ​rules like this have to be integer numbers. ​This has to be an integer number. ​This has to be string, no more than 128 characters. ​We make strong contracts ​about the content that at some level, ​feels very similar to ​what we're doing when we're writing these titles, ​but in reality, as you'll see, ​is far more complex and far more intricate. ​Now, if you've ever tried to do ​something like we're going to do with this database, ​and that is categorize your music collection, ​you find that a spreadsheet is a really hard way to ​categorize your music collection ​because of so much repeated data, ​and we'll figure that out in databases. ​The idea that they came up with in ​the '60s and the '70s is there was ​a way to represent data on a disk, ​and it could be randomly accessed, ​and there was pointers that pointed to ​something else and whatever. 
​In the early days, ​they figured out how to technically solve ​fast access to lots of data by sorting, ​hopping in various ways, ​indexing, doing clever things. ​The early ways that we programmed ​these databases is we revealed ​to us application programmers ​the low level capabilities of read this thing, ​then jump to this other thing, then ​read this other thing, then jump to the other thing, ​read this thing, jump to this thing, ​which made our lives really difficult. ​We had to write really sophisticated programs, ​but when we did, they could function very rapidly. ​What happened over time, ​is instead of our code talking directly to ​the files or the databases, instead, ​a layer started to build up that we called ​the database application or database. ​I'm not doing a very good job drawing there. ​Here's our database, and it has lots of complexity in it. ​Originally, we would just ​talk straight to that complexity. 
​But after a while, we would have a database application, ​and then our code would talk to the database application, ​and the database would know all the magic stuff. ​It was what we call in computer science an abstraction, ​which means that this is us, ​and our job was easier ​because of the complexity could all be hidden here. ​The question becomes then, ​how do we talk to ​this really powerful piece ​of software that we call a database? ​What is living here? ​What is the way we communicate? ​Sometimes we would call this an API ​, application program interface. ​This is our application. 
​This is actually another application. ​The database itself is an application. ​We have to have an interface so that ​our application can talk to the other application. ​Just like in the previous lectures, ​this is like a service. ​It's taking care of it. ​Ultimately, let me change the color here. ​It's getting messy. 
​We can think of this thing right here, ​both the data and the ​software that understands the shape of ​the data as just a service ​and a service-oriented architecture. ​Once again, what we have to do ​is define to use ​the service-oriented architecture, the cut point. ​What is the cut point between ​our application and this magic stuff? ​This is Oracle. ​It's lots and lots of money, and it's amazing. ​It's just really good software. ​Oracle's really good. Microsoft really good. 
​What happened was is we decided to create ​a standard at this point. The industry did. ​Folks got together with ​the National Institute of ​Standards and Technology, NIST, ​and they agreed on a language that was ​the API between an application and a database system. ​The name of that thing they came up with was ​SQL or the structured query language. ​Wow, I've made such a mess of this. ​I have to start over again and draw another picture. ​That means that over here, you could ​have Oracle, over here, ​you could have Microsoft, and here you could have App1. 
​Here you could have App2. ​App1 could talk to Oracle, ​or it could talk to MySQL, ​or App2 could talk to Oracle or App2 could talk to MySQL. ​Because they use the same communication ​between Oracle and MySQL, ​it means that you can write an app that's ​portable between different databases. ​It turns out that SQL is a beautiful language. ​It's just a gorgeous language. ​The reason I don't teach SQL as ​the very first programming language ​is you would be ruined. ​If you learned SQL, ​you would never want to program in any other language. 
​I think it's the most beautiful language ​that I've ever encountered. ​It's beautiful because of its simplicity ​and its expressiveness and its power, ​but then it's a very beautiful and elegant language. ​The problem with SQL is ​it depends on the data being pretty. ​It's a great way to ​write code about really gorgeous data. ​Part of what we're going to do ​is learn how to make the data look ​really good and then write really cool stuff. ​Python, on the other hand, ​is a little rougher on the edges, ​but also it just has no problem dealing ​with unstructured data or ​data that's imperfect or whatever. ​You can just keep writing more Python, ​and eventually, you're like, man, ​I thought it wasn't as complex at this. 
​I got to add a little bit if ​statement here and add another if ​statement there and do another thing. ​Python handles unstructured, ​rough data much better than databases. ​That's why Python plus SQL is such a powerful thing. ​Python cleans up the data. ​SQL is a great way to store and retrieve data. ​What SQL does is it has ​four basic function, we call it CRUD, ​create, read, update, ​and delete. Update is missing here. 
​CRUD. That's a database term. ​It's CRUD, create, read, update, and delete. ​Up next, we're going to talk about how you as ​the application developer are going to interact ​both in large projects and in small projects. ​Small projects are going to be the ​more typical thing that we use in this class. ​That's what we're going to talk about in a bit, ​and how you use software to interact with databases. 