​So welcome back to lunch, right? If you remember the morning the last lecture we ​argued, we drank a bunch of coffee, we scribbled on white boards, ​we erased white boards, and we argued about where the genre belonged. ​But when we were all said and ​done we ended up with this picture its still on the white board and ​we're coming back from lunch now. ​This is now how databases represent data. We have to be a little more explicit. There's ​no like belongs to magic in databases but when you're building your data model you ​don't want to be thinking explicitly too much about the database. You turn this ​"logical" model into what we call a physical model, by mapping it into the database. 
​So, what we do is we just take each of the tables, and the relationships between ​the tables, and we have to augment them with little bits of information. ​And so, here's the track table, and so we'll make a table called Track. ​And we take like title, rating, length, and count, and ​they become just columns in the table. That's the data we have to represent. ​And then we tend to add things to it. ​And so we're going to add what we call a primary key. ​And a primary key is a way ​for us to refer to a particular row, and so it's a unique number like 1, 2, 3, 4. 
​So each album is going to end up with a number. ​We'll put insert the title and the title will get a number. ​Right? ​And then we use that number in a column of a different table to sort of point to it. ​So these primary keys are the endpoints that we're pointing to. ​So that we can create an arrow to a particular album, ​we've got to add a id to it. ​So we add a primary key. 
​And then the other thing we do is we have to add the columns that are the other end ​of the arrow, the starting point of the arrow. ​And so I'm by convention, in this particular model, I'm naming primary keys all id. ​In track you've got to think all id and then album_id is sort of the starting point. ​So album is the name of a table, followed by underscore, followed by id. ​Now, there's no rules about how you name these things. ​These could be named X and Y if you wanted to but, ​as we've learned in programming Python, and other programming languages, ​making sensible names really reduces the cognitive load of understanding what ​the heck you meant when you were creating this. ​So we create a convention, a naming convention. 
​And, the, we have terminology for each of these things. ​A primary key is the key for which there's one key for every row. ​It's used as the way to point to that row in other tables. ​The foreign key is one of these columns that we add ​to be the starting point of the arrows. ​The primary key's the ending point of the arrow and ​the foreign key is the starting point of the arrow. ​The only other thing that we do is we may or ​may not designate one of the columns, sometimes more than one, ​as what's called the logical key. ​The logical key is that ​unique thing that we might use to look up this row from the outside world. 
​In this case, the album title might be a way we'd look it up. ​Like, oh, where is Led Zeppelin IV. ​Type in IV and it'll search it. ​So Led Zeppelin IV is going to be the title. ​Now all we are doing is saying, ​hey database, we're not looking these folks up by rating or length or count. ​But we might be looking tracks up by title. ​So, somehow on your storage ​maybe you leave some shortcuts to get to this more efficiently or more effectively. 
​So the logical key is really our way of saying we might use this ​in a WHERE clause. ​We might use it in a WHERE clause, help me out out here. ​We might use it in a WHERE clause. ​And it also sometimes, it's like we also might use it in an ORDER BY clause or ​a WHERE clause. ​And so that's the logical keys. ​So we have these three things, primary keys, logical keys, and foreign keys. ​And so if we keep drawing these pictures it starts looking complex but ​then it turns out really simple. 
​If we take the whole data model and sort of add these primary keys, ​logical keys, and foreign keys to model the beginnings and ends, ​the beginning and end of arrow, beginning and end of arrows, beginning ​and ending of arrows, we have to stick primary keys in all the tables. ​We stick foreign keys in those tables that have starting points. ​And then we indicate that certain things are our logical keys. ​It looks kind of complex, but once you've drawn the picture, ​and you have the naming convention for what you're going to name these things, ​it's a surprisingly manual task. ​The mapping from the logical to the physical ​is beautifully simple as long as you have a naming convention. ​Now, if you walk into an organization and you took this class and you say like ​Dr. Chuck's naming convention is awesome. 
​As a matter of fact, ​I stole this naming convention from a thing called Ruby on Rails. ​The name of the id, the artist_id. ​It's a good naming convention. ​And naming conventions are kind of like artistic. ​Some you think are prettier or not prettier, but any naming convention works. ​And you walk in and you go like oh, I took this class and ​I learned this naming convention of id and table_id and they'll say well ​we don't use that, we use this thing where we start with a lowercase i and the we ​uppercase the iTrackID, that that would be their primary key for ​a track, or maybe they call it pTrack Id for primary key, right? ​So that would be the name of this thing and you're in this company and you're like whoa. ​pTrackId, that looks like crap. it's a terrible, stupid idea. Well, don't do that. 
​I mean, this is not a superior naming convention to this other one, ​however they do this other one, right? ​What's important is that there is a naming convention, and when you work for ​a company. just learn their naming convention, and ​don't complain about their naming convention, unless you get to know them or ​maybe you're sort of out for coffee or something later and you're like, ​well, how come you guys never did the cool Ruby on Rails naming convention? ​I took a class and it was pretty cool as long as you're nice and you don't threaten ​them and don't tell them how dumb they are by choosing the wrong naming convention. ​So now what we're going to do is we're going to turn this into a new table. ​Okay, and so I'm going to use the wizard to make new table in our little database. ​Let's go over to, we're still in our database. ​And I am going to go to Database Structure. 
​Where's the new table button? ​New table, new table. ​File. ​New table, create table. ​There we go. Edit, create table. ​Okay, so we are going to create a table, and I need to kind of look at ​I'm looking for my cheat sheet. We'll start with the Artist table. 
​The Artist table, and we're going to add a field to it and ​we are going to name the first field an id field, and it's going to be a number. ​We are going to say that it's not null, it's a primary key. ​We're telling it that we're going to use this a lot and ​if we're linking into this table, that means we're using it a lot. ​Auto increment, it means we as the programmer ​don't actually have to specify this value, it's going to be automatically specified. ​Because pretty much 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 are the values that we're going to use. ​And then unsigned is whether it's positive or negative. ​And for this one I'm going to leave that off. 
​The other thing that's in this in our little table, let's go back and ​look at our little picture, is the name. ​Add another field and we'll name that name. Oops. ​Lowercase name. ​And we will make that a text field. ​And in this case we're not going to give it a length. ​And, there's a way later we'll give other ones lengths. 
​And then we are going to hit the OK button. ​And when it's all said and done we have an Artist table, okay? ​This is our old Users table, this is our Artist table. ​We could make a whole new database if we wanted, but ​we're not going to, we're just going to put all these things in. ​Actually, let's just get rid of this table. ​Get rid of Users. Edit, Delete Table. 
​Good bye User table. ​That was from the previous lecture. ​So now we have an Artist table. ​Okay? So that's the wizard way of creating a table. ​The next table we're going to create is the Genre table. ​Now the idea is we tend to work from outward in. 
​The leaves of this tree outward in. ​So we created the Artist table then we'll create the Genre table, ​then we'll create the Album table. ​And then we'll create the Track table because you kind of want to create ​the ends of the arrows before you create the beginnings of the arrows, okay? ​So we'll create the Genre, and ​now I'm just going to use to SQL because that's a lot quicker for me to type. ​Here's the CREATE TABLE, we're going to say that this guy is an INTEGER, ​it's NOT NULL, it's got a PRIMARY KEY and it's AUTOINCREMENT, and it's UNIQUE. ​And that is our way of saying ​give each row a little number. ​So we go to Execute SQL and I put this thing in here. 
​And then I run it. ​It worked and if I take a look at our Browse Data or ​our Database Structure, Genre is in there and Genre has two columns, ​id and name. And then we have the other tables. ​So now we're going to create the Album table. ​Now the thing that's different about the Album table ​is that the Album table is our first example of a foreign key. ​So this is our foreign key. ​We've been putting primary keys in every table. 
​Primary key pretty much say this over and ​over and over again, this long INTEGER NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT UNIQUE. ​Just say that over and over and over again. ​Now, we're going to have a foreign key which is the start, ​the foreign key, primary key. ​Right? And so, we're just going to call that an integer. ​In other databases you can add some stuff to it, talk about ​what to do with the parent thing, but we're not going to do that for now. ​We're just going to say that's an integer, that's a starting point of an arrow. 
​And we're naming it artist_id just to jog our memory ​that that's what's going on there. ​Put SQL, paste it, run it, poof she works. ​Database Structure. Now we got Genre, and let's look at the last one. ​Okay? So the last one is the track. ​Okay? So CREATE TABLE, the name of the table. 
​We've got this sort of thing that by now we're cut and paste a bunch of times. ​We have a primary key, we have a logical key. ​It just happens to be green, it's TEXT. ​And then we have two foreign keys. ​Because if you remember, there were two arrows coming out of Track. ​Both to Album and to Genre. ​So remember, oh, Album. ​album_id, genre_id. 
​Naming convention is your friend. ​And then we just have some stuff that's integers like the length, ​the rating, and the count. ​Then we put those in. ​So now we have the columns and the rows and all the foreign keys for Track. ​And then we will run that. ​And if we take a look at the data we will see ​we got all of them done. Album is now complex. 
​And all these things. ​Wait a sec, did I not? ​What did I get wrong here? ​Oh, no, Track is the complex one. ​So Track has a bunch of stuff. ​So there we go. So if we take a look at, we've got all of these things, and ​we have translated our logical model into a physical model, and ​we translated the physical model into a series of CREATE statements. 
​And we've run those CREATE statements, and ​now we've represented the various kinds of tables that we want to insert data into. ​So we're going to stop here. ​But next we're going to start inserting data into these tables. 