​So we have two cooperating applications, and they've got to send data to one another, ​and they have a disagreement as to whether or not the data is right. ​One side might blow up or the other side might blow up and ​it's like whose fault is it? ​And so it's important to be able to define a contract as to what is acceptable XML. ​That's really kind of outside of either application. ​You can't say, the XML that works is the XML. ​The correct XML is the one that causes my program not to blow up. ​That's not really the best way to define it, so we have to define it kind of ​at the moment of data exchange, and that's what XML schema does. 
​It's a way to sort of establish outside of any program, and then separately check. ​So this side can say I sent good stuff, ​and this side said I received good stuff or I received bad stuff. ​So you can just look at a document and you can say yes, ​this validates, or no, it doesn't validate. ​And validation is not the act of transferring the data or ​even deserializing the data. ​Validation is the act of verifying that the data is in the right format. ​It's a contract. So if you're working with something like your ​airline reservation system that's working with an airline system, ​I mean that's working with a hotel system, you might say okay, and here's the schema. 
​And they just publish that separately and agree that's the schema. ​So if later the XML starts to change in bad ways that break one side or ​the other, they can know which side it was that started changing. ​And so XML validation is the act of taking an document and a Schema Contract, ​which itself is also an XML document, and then sending to the Validator. ​We're not going to spend a lot of time with this, but ​it's an important concept to sort of imagine and understand how contracts ​between cooperating applications have to be developed. ​And so here's a bit of XML. So some XML person tag, ​remember the outer is only a single tag, and then I've got three child tags. ​You know last name, age, date born, and then we have a contract. 
​And so like I said the contract itself is XML with a couple of weird-looking tags. ​And what the XML is trying to say, you know, what kind of tag this is, ​how much data you're supposed to put in it. ​Can you have any child tags underneath it? ​All those kinds of things are the questions that are being asked by ​the contract. ​And so this xs;complexType As we've said before, an element ​that can have children are called complex and the element that can't are simple. ​And so this basically says the outer bit of this particular XML is expected to be ​a tag named person and that's what that's saying. ​Then what it says is within that there's going to be a sequence of tags, ​xs:sequence. 
​And then we basically say oh, and ​there's going to be a tag called lastname and it's going to be a string. ​And then there's going to be a tag that's age and it's going to be integer. ​And there's going to be a tag called dateborn and that's going to be a date. ​And so we can sort of look at this and say outer one person, ​next one in name, age, that's a number, that's good, that's a string, that's good. ​That looks like a date, that's good. ​Check, check, check, check, check. ​This XML matches that contract and that's the idea. 
​Now I'm not by the time you actually have to make one of these, ​you'll go be, you'll have to read all kinds of stuff and figure all this out. ​So I just want you to get the sense that these things exist and ​they're not impossible to read. ​And so it turns out again, in the early 90s, there was ​a number of these schema languages that were out there and you'll run across them. ​I'm mostly talking about the one that kind of won or the one you're most likely ​these days to encounter called the XML Schema from the World Wide Web Consortium. ​It's called XSD and usually in the file that you get, ​if I just have a file and I send you the XML I have a suffix of .xml, and ​if I send you a schema, I tend to send you a file that's .xsd and so we kind of just ​call it XSD and that's the one we're going to talk about and so away we go. ​That's the one. There is other. 
​I just want you to know that there's other ones out there. ​So like I said. ​You have complex elements, you have simple elements, you have a sequence. ​Those are sort of the basics of the tags that you put into XSD. ​You can do further things, I just gave you the simplest kind of stuff. ​And so, for example, I can basically say, okay, this tag, full string? ​I want there to be a thing called full_name, there's a sequence. 
​So this is sequence, we can see that this is the sequence. ​And I want this to be minOccurs equals 1, maxOccurs equals 1. ​That basically means there's going to be one and exactly one. ​One and exactly one. ​MinOccurs if you have less than one, it's an error, ​if you have more than one, it's an error. ​This one here, this tag. ​This one can happen 0 times up to 10. 
​So that just means if there is somewhere between zero and ten of those tags between ​full_name and the end of person, we are happy with this. And so that minOccurs and ​maxOccurs is basically how many times these things must appear. ​So again this is just ​a little more sophisticated XSD. ​We've already played with at couple of different kinds of data types. ​We've talked about string, we've talked about date. ​We'll look at the date in a little more detail. ​Date, time, decimal, and integer. 
​So it sort of understands the difference between a floating point and an integer. ​So you can render an opinion as to what you want in there. ​String, of course, is just about anything and dates are kind of special. ​The date format that they chose, of course if you go from different countries ​the date is all kinds of different things. ​The date format that they've chosen that's heavily used on the Internet is a date ​format that's year four-digit year, dash, two-digit month, dash, two-digit day. ​And that's not how it is in America. ​We do 9/24/2002 in America. 
​But in the web, they basically said how about we pick. ​We didn't want to pick the one that was the most popular but ​pick something that computers would like. ​So this turns out by forcing it to be fixed like this, it sorts. ​So if you were to sort this, the year is the most significant. ​The month is second most significant. ​And the day is the next most significant. ​And you zero fill up to two digits for the month and two digits for the day. 
​And so January 1, 2001 is 2001-01-01 and so ​it's the same length as 2002-12-31. ​And so you can just sort these and it just sorts as strings. ​They sort quite naturally, whereas lots of the formats that we use for dates ​in common use or in our own writing or on checks or whatever, don't sort so well. ​So we did this for computer folks, got a picture of this coming up in a second. ​And the other thing is if it's a date-time, ​it's exactly the same date format, and then it's the letter T, ​and then hours, minutes, and seconds, and then a time zone. ​Dates and times in the web and on the Internet are very problematic. ​Because in the real world where the sun comes up and the sun comes down, and ​it matters what time of day, you kind of want it to be noon when it's light out. 
​We have time zones. ​And then we have savings time. ​And then certain places violate the rules, and ​they are a different time than somebody that's right next door. ​And so a thing that computers tend to do, is they tend to ignore the time zone. ​I remember in the old days, ​computers would mess up when daylight savings time happened. ​And they don't anymore, because they tend to think of all times inside the computer ​as Universal Time or Greenwich Mean Time. ​And that means it could even be a different day, but then they offset it. 
​And if you've ever traveled and your calendar sort of switches, ​that's because the time of your items is the same inside the calendar. ​But then when your local time switches, it just moves forward or ​back, six hours forward or three hours back or whatever. ​And so, that's why we tend. ​Now, this time formats can have time zones in it, but it's not highly recommended. ​and so we tend to see these Z times, which are the UTC, and ​like I said it is filled out 0's so that all the columns have to be filled out. ​four-two-two with the dashes and that means they'll all have the same length and ​the letter T and then two digit two digit two digits with the colons and ​then at the end the time zone. ​And like I said we tend to do everything in absolute time. ​Here are some more XSDs. ​Let's take a look at this one. 
​Some of the documents have this little xml that's really an indication that it's ​an XML document and then we have the schema which is the outer one. ​There's an address as the outer tag, and ​that tag goes all the way to here because these are just key-value pairs. ​We have a recipient which is a string. ​Recipient, house, that's a string I guess, street which is a string. ​And then we have post code, county. ​What have we got here? ​Town, County, oh County, that's optional. ​minOccurs 0, so you'll notice that there is no county here, ​because that's minOccurs 0, there's no county. 
​And then if we take take a look at post code, post code is a string, ​so that's a string. ​And then we have country, so country's an interesting one, so ​this is all about country right here. ​So country is a string, but we're going to restrict it with this enumeration, ​it says it has to be one of these five strings. ​So it can't be just anything, it has to be one of these five strings. ​In this particular, ​we can validate that this UK is indeed one of those valid strings. ​So this validates. ​So this bit here validates everywhere we can check and ​validate that every one of the tags there meets the needs of this XML schema. 
​Here's another schema that has a couple of other things. ​xs:string, we've got that. string, we've dont that. ​maxOccurs="unbounded" ​That says as many as you want. ​minOccurs="0", we know how to deal with that. ​xs:positiveInteger, that just means your -14 is not allowed. ​And then use="required", it says this has to be there. ​And you can talk about attributes as well. ​So you basically say you must have an orderid attribute on this particular tag. ​Okay? And so ​I'm not trying to teach you how to be an XSD wizard, ​just the notion that there is this syntax that's used to establish a contract so ​that you can resolve disagreements between cooperating applications. ​So up next, we'll switch from schema back to XML and ​we'll look at how to parse XML in Python. 