​Welcome back. We're going to continue on ​our theme of counting in histograms. ​But just counting stuff that's in a list, ​five items in a list, that's too easy, ​I had those examples, really simple. ​Now, what we're going to do is we're ​going to actually take some text ​from the textbook and we're going to do some counting. ​Again, this is a recurring thing. ​We talked about the most common word etc. ​We're going to count text and once you figure out ​how to do this, it's pretty straightforward. 
​You can count a million words ​as easily as you can count four words. ​Here's a real simple program that we've got where ​we're going to just count the words in one line of text. ​We create a dictionary, ​we ask to the user to enter line a text, ​we read that with no prompt and then we ​split it on white space like we've done before, ​and then the words variable is ​now a list of the words that ​were in that line with spaces. ​We just have a for loop that just loops through them. ​It's not that different than the previous example, ​it's just we're reading a line of input and splitting ​it into words and then we're looping through the words, ​and then we just do count ​sub-word equals counts.get(word0)+1, ​which is the idiom of create a histogram entry and ​in the same line implicitly increment that histogram. ​Now we've got a histogram. It's that simple. 
​If we run this code right, ​which is something we talked about before, ​this is the one that's difficult. ​Count the most common word and how many times. ​I made them green so I can go like 1, 2, ​3, 4, 5, 6, 7, I can do that. ​But if they're not green, this is really hard. ​But what's cool, it's for Python, it's really easy. ​We get that line of text, we run split, ​we get a list that is ​the words with all the white space removed. ​And then we have a for loop, ​and then we make the counts. 
​Once you understand that idiom of the histogram idiom, ​it's pretty easy to construct these things. ​We enter our line of text, we split it, ​we get the list of words, ​we make an empty histogram, ​and then we loop through the words in the list, ​and then we augment the histogram, ​creating entries and adding one to those entries. ​We've been looping through lists, ​but eventually, we need to loop through dictionaries. ​We put stuff in the dictionaries. ​All we've ever done so far in ​this chapter is we just print them all out. ​We have to think about looping through dictionaries. ​We'll just start with a simple dictionary constant. 
​Chuck maps to one, ​Fred maps to 42, and Jane maps to 100. ​You can use the standard ​in for key and counts and that's going to iterate. ​But what it's going to do is it's going to ​iterate through the keys because every entry, ​unlike in a list, is a key-value pair. ​If you're going to just run a loop, you get the keys. ​But it's okay because, inside the loop, ​you can go into the dictionary and pull out ​the value by the key, count sub key. ​If I print out key and count sub key, ​you see the loop runs three times, ​as a Chuck 1, Fred 42, Jane 100. ​It's a problem that you only go through the keys. 
​If you think about it, you couldn't go through the values ​because you can't look up the key from the value. ​The other thing about dictionaries is that ​the underlying hash-based ​implementation means that counts ​sub key is in a sense guaranteed to be ​efficient even when there are ​millions of entries in a dictionary. ​Count sub key is fast. ​If it were a list and you'd be list ​some list sub 12, that's also fast. ​Part of what they did when they built lists ​and dictionaries is they built them in ​a way that if you just use ​them and use them the right way, in the normal way, ​those things are fast ​because the implementations underneath lists and ​dictionaries are designed to ​make the common things that we do ​look up by position and lists and look up ​by key and dictionaries are fast, ​meaning they don't take a lot of compute time. ​Because again, this is not for three entries, ​this is for a million entries or 10 million entries. ​When you're not doing data science or whatever. 
​One loop pattern is to just put ​the counts on the end of a four in pattern by the way, ​and key is a variable, it has no meaning, ​but it's a really good choice of ​a variable because I call these things key-value pairs. ​We'll see coming up that I will use ​the variable name value sometimes. ​Now there's other methods inside of ​the dictionary that can pull things out. ​If you, for example, take a dictionary, ​in this case jjj with three key-value pairs and you ​cast it to or convert it list sub jjj is saying, ​take what's in this dictionary and ​give me back in the form of a list. ​Just like the for loop we just saw, ​that gives you back the keys. ​It gives you back a list of the keys. ​There is another syntax which is the keys method, ​so you see jjj.keys (), ​that is saying call ​the keys method and that whole parentheses thing ​means you're really calling ​code that lives inside the dictionary object. 
​We'd say keys is a method that dictionaries have ​jjj.keys is the exact same as converting to a list. ​Because jjj.keys is returning a list, ​so we see the exact same thing. ​You can say jjj.values () and that will ​give you a list of the values in ​basically the same order of the keys. ​In this case, by the way, ​keys and values is not ​something I chose as a programmer that's part of ​the documentation of dictionary that says there's ​a keys method and there's ​a values method and this is what they do. ​Now we saw how we could use the keys. ​You go through the keys and then you look up ​the value each time through the loop. ​But you can also say, ​look, I want both of them. 
​There's another method called items and that ​returns a list of what we call tuples. ​Tuples are not key value pairs anymore. ​Tuples is the next chapter, ​almost think of them as read only lists. ​They're just lists that are two things in order. ​That's with the parentheses, ​the square bracket is a list syntax. ​The curly brace is a dictionary syntax. ​The parenthesis, when there's ​a list of things is a tuple. 
​This, once you have a tuple, ​jjj.items, returns a tuple, ​which is a list of then the key value pairs. ​This syntax is not ​present in any other ​common programming language that I know. ​I love this syntax. ​That is, we have two iteration variables. ​In this case, the two iteration variables that I've ​got are aaa and bbb. ​It means that aaa and bbb ​together walk through the dictionary. ​Walk through the successive items in the dictionary. 
​You get both of them, ​so you don't have to look the value up in this case, ​because bbb is always the value and ​aaa is always the key as it goes through the list. ​I'm making probably too big a fuss ​about this because it just prints out chuck 1, ​fred 42, and jan 100. ​It's becomes an idiom just like the get you just ​say now I would not name these values aaa and bbb. ​I'm doing it so that you don't get confused. ​I would name the key and value. ​I would make the iteration variables key, ​value in jjj.items. That's what I would do. 
​But I have a feeling that that would ​confuse you right now and so we're not going to do that. ​But you will when you write your code, ​feel free to use key and value. ​The key thing is, is that ​this is something we'll see in the next chapter, ​is what's called tuple assignment. ​I think it's one of the prettier things that Python does. ​I don't like, Java doesn't do it. ​Php doesn't do it. ​Javascript doesn't do it ​because they don't have a concept of tuples. 
​I think that, list dictionaries and tupples. ​Again, I'm kind of thinking about the next chapter. ​But tuples, I think, is ​a really elegant addition ​that not a lot of other programming languages do. ​So look at how beautiful ​this is and know that it's probably ​the last time in your career that you'll see ​a four loop that's gorgeous like this. ​You'll go into a Java and you're like, ​oh, the four loops in Java are terrible. ​Why don't they do it like Python? ​I'm just waxing, eloquent. 
​This is a beautiful piece of code. ​I actually, there are ​moments when I see a piece of code and I just think ​that is a beautiful piece of code because it's ​so expressive, it's so beautiful. ​There's some beautiful things like the C++ language. ​There's a lot thing I don't like about C++, ​there are some beautiful things about it. ​Now, we're coming back, ​we're coming back to Chapter 1. ​We're sitting here in Chapter 9. ​I told you that you would understand this code, ​that in chapter one I just said, ​don't really try to understand this. 
​But today, right now, ​I want you to understand every line. ​Let's go through it. We're asking for a file name. ​We open it, we create ​an empty dictionary and ​now we're going to loop through the file. ​For line in handle loops through the file. ​Then what we're going to do is we're going to split ​that line. Many lines. 
​Split the line, many lines split the line. ​Then we're going to, for each word on the line, ​we're doing them one line at a time. ​But then we go across the line four word in words. ​Then we do get ​idiom count sub word equals counts ​dot get words zero plus one. ​Now we've got a dictionary and it's a histogram. ​At the end of that first loop in counts, ​we've got all the words and their corresponding counts, ​but we want to find the biggest one. ​We're going to do a max loop. 
​The loop is an max loop, ​you've got to have a value that you start at none and ​the big word for word count word is a string, ​and count is an integer. ​In count start items, ​if the big count is none, ​which means that's our little trick ​that we have in max loops. ​For the first one, ​big count starts before the loop starts of none. ​That's going to mean that the first one is ​the largest we've seen so far. ​Or count is greater than big count, ​the current count is larger than a big count. ​That's in the second and later one. ​We're in that one statement, ​we're doing the first iteration ​and the second and later iterations. 
​What do we do in a max? ​If we see something bigger, ​or it's the first one we remember it, ​we say big word equals word and big count equals count. ​Then when that loop goes through, ​big count is going up and big word is ​remembering the last biggest word that we've got. ​When it's all done, we'll have ​the biggest word and we just ​print it out and we are done. ​This is what I promised you would ​know back in Chapter 1, ​and now you should know it. ​I'm going to give you an assignment ​that's pretty much this, ​so you should know it. ​If you don't slow down, ​it wasn't that hard review, ​whatever it is that you need to ​review until you understand this, ​I would say don't go further ​until you really understand this. 
​In this chapter, we've talked about collections. ​We've talked about lists versus dictionaries. ​We've talked about dictionary constants, ​curly bracy, things with key value, ​with a colon in the middle. ​The most common word, histogram stuff. ​The idiom of the get, ​and the different methods inside ​the dictionary object which pulls stuff out. ​We took a look up next we're going to talk about tuples, ​and then you'll really get it right. ​You need to understand what we've ​got here and then go on to the next chapter. 
​Then we'll be reviewing this again in the next chapter, ​after we have a really precise ​definition of what tuples are, ​and then we'll start sorting stuff. ​This is a wonderful chapter, ​I hope you really understood it ​and we'll see you in the next chapter. 