​Welcome to Chapter 9, Python dictionaries. ​This is the payoff in data structures. ​We have been doing various things. ​We did lists and this is a review. What's a collection? ​A collection is a variable ​that we can put more than one thing in, ​but then once we put more than one thing in a collection, ​we have to wait to put it in and get it out. ​We have to have an index, as it were, ​some tag or marker that says, ​what do we just put in there? 
​We're putting five things in, ​but how do I get number three back? ​In a list, they go in and order. ​It's pretty simple. Again, ​to review what is not a collection? ​The variable x in this situation. ​If you say x = 2, ​it's going to have a two in it, ​and if you say x = 4, ​it doesn't end up with both a two ​and four in at the same time. ​But in a collection you could have the value, ​two, and the value, four, ​but you've got to put ​them somewhere inside the variable, ​and you have to have an indexing ​mechanism inside the variable. 
​The solid core collections of Python are a list, ​which we've already talked about, and a dictionary. ​A list is like a little card catalog ​that you could thumb through. ​There's the first one, there's the second one, ​and maybe there's 40 of them or whatever. ​We looked them up by position up to ​the length-1 because we start them ​at zero as we've talked about. ​I think that is like an old library card catalog ​and maybe we've never seen a library, ​maybe never seen a card catalog, ​but it's just a bunch of cards that you flip through. ​A dictionary allows more random access, ​not necessarily have to know where it's at or ​look through all of them to find something, ​you can give it a tag. ​You can say this is tagged ​with summer and this is tagged with winter. 
​Then you can go say, give me ​back the summer value and the winter. ​You could almost think of it as the tags ​in a dictionary or their own variable names, ​their variable names within a variable name. ​We're going to talk about dictionaries in this chapter. ​Dictionaries are Python's most powerful ​and probably the most popular data collection. ​People are drawn to languages like Perl or PHP. ​Don't learn Perl, but I ​remember looking at this language, ​Perl, which I felt was a terrible, ​terrible programming language, ​but it had this thing called associative arrays in it, ​which were key-value pairs, ​just like Python dictionaries. ​People would tolerate what I thought was ​a terrible programming language because they could ​use this key-value data structure. 
​It's like having a database for ​moderately-sized data structures sitting there in Python. ​Like I said, it's Perl and PHP ​have an associative array which are key-value pairs, ​property bags, ​or hash maps or maps in the Java programming language. ​Property bag in C-Sharp and.NET. ​This notion of a key-value pair is really, ​these days, required in ​any reasonable programming language. ​Dictionaries have changed over time in Python. ​Actually there's another course, ​C programming for everybody, ​where we look at this in much more detail. ​What happened in Python over ​time was the internal structure of ​what dictionaries were and how the dictionary code is ​built inside Python changed and evolved. 
​Prior to Python 3.7, ​dictionaries did not keep entries in order of insertion. ​You might see courses that talk a lot, ​including my earlier versions of my course that said ​, dictionaries randomize everything. ​That's because they were built with hashmaps. ​Hashmaps as an underlying ​computer science data structure, ​don't worry about that. ​But later in Python 3.7, ​which came out in 2018, ​the entries are in order of insertion, ​but that doesn't mean they're sorted. ​If you put things in a list, ​they're in order that you put them in. ​If you put things in a dictionary, ​they're in the order you put them in. 
​You could almost think of a dictionary like ​a list with an extra quick lookup by key. ​You could think of it as like a list, ​but with random access. ​You don't have to go through all of them. ​If you know what the key is, you can look it up. ​You may see different things if you are ​seeing documentation or books ​from different versions of Python. ​Python lists, dictionaries, ​and tuples are just things that were ​designed with you in mind ​: they're designed to be easy to use. ​If you really want to dig deeper, you can, ​but how they were actually built is ​really beautifully intricate computer science. 
​Learning that is a useful thing, ​but for now we're just ​going to use them and we're going to be ​thankful that Guido van Rossum ​built them for us and you can insert a thing, ​and you can take a thing out, and you can throw it away, ​and you don't have to worry about what's really going on. ​But that itself is ​a really interesting study ​that we cover in another course. ​Let's take a look at lists. ​You create an empty list. ​You append a number to the list, ​you append another number to the list, ​and then you append another numbered list, ​12, 3, 75. ​They go in, you got three of them. ​You can look them up by the number card[1] is three, ​which is the second one, because they start at zero ​, and you can replace it. ​card[1] = card[1] + 2, ​and that takes that value, ​three, and turns it to five. 
​Again, there are three things in ​here and we have to have an indexing mechanism, ​and that indexing mechanism is integer numbers ​that start from zero to the length of the list, -1. ​Dictionaries, doing the same basic thing, ​I think I'm like a file cabinet, ​is we create a dictionary. ​You literally could use 0, ​1, and 2 as the keys. ​You could. They're not going to stay in order though. ​There'll be order of insertion, ​but if you put 0, ​2, 1, the order would be 0, 2, ​1 because it's a key, not the position. ​If you want position, you use lists. 
​It's easier just to think of these as tags, ​which are strings in this case. ​Cabinet['summary'] = 12, ​cabinet['fall'] = 3, ​and cabinet['spring'] = 75. ​That says we put three values in using three keys. ​We, as the programmer, get to choose those keys. ​They don't have to be strings, ​but strings is probably the easiest thing to think about. ​If we print it out, we don't just see the 12, ​3, and 75, ​we see the 12 is stored under the key, summer, ​three is stored on the key, falls, ​75 is stored under the key, string. ​Then we can look them up by key. 
​Cabinet['fall'] is three. ​We can put this on the left-hand hand and on ​the right-hand side of an assignment statement. ​Cabinet['fall'] = cabinet['fall'] + 2, ​and now we change that value. ​Again, if you're using strings as keys, ​you can almost think of these ​as variables within a variable. ​We have a collection, the dictionary, ​and in that collection ​you have a bunch of variables in it. ​You could imagine that Python, ​when you start making variables, ​uses a similar way to keep ​track of what's in each variable. ​It probably does. Again, ​comparing lists and dictionaries, they're very similar. 
​The difference is that the indexing, ​how you look something up, ​like in the list[0], ​that's looking at the first element, ​and we can replace it. ​We can put them on the left-hand side ​or the right-hand side of an assignment statement. ​The thing in the brackets is the only thing that changes. ​Lists put numbers in the brackets, ​dictionaries put anything, ​but strings are very typical, in the brackets. ​It's really how you store them and also the storing, ​because you're just like, ​the list exists and you want to add one to the end. ​The dictionary, you're just ​throwing them in even though they do stay in order. ​The thing to think of them is key-value pairs. 
​If we look at this code, ​we put two things in the list, ​append 21 and append 183, and then we can replace it. ​Then comparing that same line for line in the dictionary, ​we put in age 21 and course of 182, ​print it, and you can see the key-value pairs. ​Then you can replace one of the keys, ​S23, and print it out and it just changes. ​You've replaced it and it changes. ​In addition to constructing ​a dictionary and then adding things to it, ​we can just have a constant. ​We can have list constants with square brackets, ​and we have curly braces to make dictionary constants. ​In that constant, you just have key: value, ​key: value, ​key: value, and you just fill it up. 
​You can make an empty dictionary by either ​calling the dictionary constructor ​and like on the previous slide, ​dict, open print, close print, ​or you can just make a constant curly brace. ​Think of this as zero or 42, or 'fred'. ​That's a dictionary literal or a dictionary constant. 