​Welcome to chapter 12. ​Now, what we're going to do is we're going to take and write programs. ​Instead of just talking to a disk drive, ​we're going to go right outside of the computer and talk across the Internet, ​to talk on the web. ​The Internet of course is an exciting thing and there's a lot to it, ​and we'll talk a little bit about Internet architecture ​just enough to motivate what we're going to do in Python programs. ​But if you really get excited about this and find this interesting, ​I wrote a whole book, it's a free book, ​you can also buy it on Amazon if you like, but just go there. ​There's actually lectures, and quizzes, ​and everything for this free book on ​network architecture that I wrote called Introduction to Networking. ​So, this is really a short summary of something I go into in much more detail there. 
​So, one of the things that we talk about in that book is ​this thing called the network architecture. ​There is this layered architecture that basically represents ​the connection over the Internet and it represents two computers, ​and there's application, talks to a transport layer, ​which talks to an Internet layer, ​which talks to the link layer and that talks to the Wi-Fi or Ethernet connection. ​It goes through a bunch of hops on the network, maybe 10, 12, ​15, and it comes at the end of ​the destination could be that maybe this is a web server or something. ​It goes up through these layers and then runs ​a web application and then the data is then sent back, ​out the same path back up 15 hops, ​up and then back into your application and then to your screen. ​So, you can see something. ​We can talk a lot about this in the book, ​and then in my other Coursera class, ​I talk a lot about these layers and give you all this stuff, ​but we're going to simplify and skip past all of that stuff. ​It's fun, but we're not going to take too much time on it, but instead, ​we're going to start at the first layer that is what's called an ​end-to-end layer in the network architecture called the transport layer. 
​The idea is, as you can write a piece of code, ​you will write a Python program that will talk out ​the transport layer over to an application on another server. ​This is the network over here. ​Another server and gets data back and that's what we're going to show you how to do. ​So, the Internet layer and the link layer implement the transport layer. ​But for now, we're really going to just pretend that there is a nice pipe from end-to-end ​that when your program says something down ​the pipe the program on the other end hears it, ​and when that program sends something back, ​you can hear it on your end. ​It's a very simple thing. ​So, we call these communications ​between two applications because it really is to applications, ​your Python program on one end and a network server. 
​It might be written in PHP, or Java, ​or even Python, but when you hook these two things together, ​there are two pieces of software running on ​two independent computers that are actually chatting, ​that's like they made a phone call. ​You make a phone call, chat on the phone call, hang the phone call up. ​The difference is that computers do this hundreds of times a second, ​if not thousands of times a second, ​and we call this connection a socket. ​It's little thing that's built in ​the Internet just long enough to have this conversation happening then it's thrown away. ​So, we call this thing a socket. ​The way sockets work is, ​if you want to establish a socket you say, ​"I would like to talk to this particular web server." ​All the web servers have names, ​and numbers, and points. 
​Then there's also which application. ​So, the different applications on that server are listening on what are called ports. ​You could think of them almost as telephone number extensions. ​So, you call a large company they've got one phone number and it says, ​"Enter the extension if you know it." ​Well, that means you've called the company but you really want to talk to a person. ​So these ports, these TCPIP ports. ​These little ports, are different applications ​associate themselves with these ports when they start up. 
​So, the incoming email server might be on port ​25 and it wakes up and it sits there waiting for something to happen. ​So, our applications. ​Say, you know what? I want to send some mail, ​and so I'm going to connect to this server but on port ​25 and that way I hope to talk to the email server. ​So, we use these ports. ​Now, the port that we're going to play within this class the most is port 80. ​So, port 80 is the web port because that's the part that's connected to the server. 
​Port 443 is the secure HTTPS. ​So, when you connect to a web server. ​So, if you're a browser and you want to connect to a web server, ​you go to a hostname or number and then you connect to ​port 80 and then hopefully if there is a web server on that host, ​you'll be talking to the web server on port 80. ​Again, it's like an application on your computer is making a phone call, ​an application on this computer is picking the phone call up, ​and you both say "Hello". ​So, in the common TCP ports like I said, ​port 80 is the one that we're going to play with the most it's HTTP. ​So, sometimes you'll even go on the web and cruise around and see ​a URL that is a little different that has something like a colon 8080 on it. ​Well, this basically is the syntax for URLs host and then colon 8080 is the port. 
​So, this is basically a web server that's not running on port 80, ​but running on port 8080. ​So, it's not like they have to be on these ports, ​but we commonly expect them to be on ports. ​Normally there's going to be a web server on port 80. ​If there is a web server, ​there might not be a web server on port 80. ​So, Python's awesome. ​Let's say you want to use millions of ​lines of code in the link and network and transport layer of your computer, ​as well as, the entire Internet, ​and some server on the other side, ​and the data and you want to talk to it? ​It takes three lines of Python. 
​Three lines of Python, that is it. ​All that complexity. ​All that whatever three lines of Python. ​So, like always we have to first import something. ​So, we're going to import the socket library to say, ​"Hey, we're going to use this library." ​Like the regular expression, we said Import re, ​and then we create a socket. ​We say socket.socket. 
​This syntax here, I don't want to explain it. ​Just type this, the way I tell you to. ​It's like it creates this endpoint that's inside ​your computer that's ready to connect out to the far end, ​but it's not yet connected. ​It's like a connection point that has ​not yet been connected and that's what this magic means. ​We're going to hook a thing across the internet and we're going to use a stream. ​A stream means it's a series of characters that just keep coming back. ​So, that's that second line. 
​The actual connection happens when we say mysock.connect. ​So, this returns us an object and then we ​actually call the connect method in that object and we pass in two things. ​We passed the host we want to connect to, ​which is a domain name, ​and a port that we want to connect to. ​So, that makes the connection and that's all it takes to make a socket connection. ​Now, that's not sending any data, ​that's like dialing the phone. ​So that's all it takes to make the connection that dials the phone in Python like I said. ​Amazingly, just three lines. 
​That's one of the things that we love about Python. ​We absolutely loved the fact that Python does so much ​for us with a simple import statement. ​In this XKCD comic, ​we see someone who imported anti-gravity and they started floating. ​So, you get the idea that import socket is like amazing. ​You can do something in two lines after that and you're doing something useful. ​So, the next thing we're going to talk about is once we've made the sockets, ​how we actually communicate to that far off application in Python. 