>> So we've been talking about variables, we've been talking about constants, we've been talking about expressions, but we also have constants that are integers, we have constants that are floating point numbers, we have constants that are strings, and we can manipulate these. And Python carefully tracks not only what the value in a variable is, but what kind of a value it is. So is it a string, is it an integer, is it a floating point? And sometimes this makes a difference. And here's a little example code. We have this plus operator, and the plus operator is looking at its two operands, 1 and 4. It's like, those are integers. 
I know what to do with integers. That means addition. And so it adds this to be 5, and then sticks it into DD DDD and out comes 5. On the other hand, we can actually use this same plus operator concatenating strings, because the plus operator looks to its left, looks to its right, says, whoa, those are strings. And I know what you mean, I, I think you mean to concatenate this. And so then we end up with, hello. The space is very carefully constructed right there, because the plus doesn't add a space. 
So this ends up being hello, space there. And that little space is the space here. And so Python knows the type of, in this example, these are all constants, but it knows the type of constants and it knows the type of variables, and it can do very different things and it can blow up and be unhappy, as we'll soon see, based on the type of things. So here we have an example of something that's unhappy. So I have now concatenated hello in there, and then Python's perfectly happy to do that. And then I stick that in ee and now I say I want to add one to it. It looks to its left, looks to its right. 
This is a string and this is an integer. And Python says, I don't know how to do that. Python could know how to do it, but it's chosen not to know how to do that. And so you get the dreaded traceback. And traceback is like syntax error. It is Python telling you. It's not Python telling you that you're a bad programmer or that you're never going to be a programmer, or that you're completely unsuitable for a programmer. 
What Python is saying is, I, Python, am lost. You told me to do something I don't know how to do. You need to go, remember what it is that I'm capable of doing as Python, please come back and fix it. It also Means that the program stops, meaning that if you're in a multi line script and you're doing a bunch of stuff and there's a trace back here, the code after that quits, okay? And that's because you've hit this line that Python is lost and Python is loathe to continue. Now, we'll see in a bit that you'll be able to force it to continue if you want, but because you said something that Python didn't understand, it just quits at that point. And traceback line one in this case tells you where it is that this thing blew up. 
And so this looks like nasty gibberish, but after a while it won't take you long at all to just relax. Look for the word traceback that means Python quit somewhere, it tells you where, and then you look a little bit farther and it tells you what's wrong. TypeError it's unhappy with the type and it's still referring up to this line of code. It says I can't convert integer objects to string object implicitly. So it's like you have told it to do something. Combining a string and integer and Python is like, I am lost, but I'm giving you as much clue as to how I got lost, what got me lost, where I got lost, I got lost, where I got lost and what caused me to get lost. And Python is trying as hard as it can to clue you into what's going wrong. 
So don't look at this as like bad, look at this as like, I've not quite communicated to Python the way I want to communicate. There's a way to solve this, there's a way to do something here. But, and so if we take Python and we think about Python, say, hey, you're so picky and you blow up if I do the least big, least little mistake on types like help me out here. And so it turns out that Python has a built in function called type. So again it's type parentheses. Function calls have parentheses on them. And we pass something in and we're like, hey Python, tell me what the type of the variable EE is. 
And then Python prints out, it's a string. What is the type of the constant? Quote. Hello, quote, that's a string. What is the type of the constant one that would be an integer. And so Python keeps track of the value of variables and constants, the value and the type of it. And so we have to kind of manipulate this and be aware of this as we move forward. 
And so there's Several types of numbers that we've already sort of been implicitly playing with. Like I said, you can give a variable to type or you can give a constant to type. Variables and constants that don't have decimal places are integers. What are called integers and variables that have decimal places are called floating points. Even if this was a 98.0, it, it would still be a floating point. As soon as you put the point there, then that means it's a floating point. They are represented internally differently. 
Floating point numbers have a greater range than integer numbers, but they are not always as precise as integer numbers. So there is floating point numbers have more range and less precision. So integers are perfect, but there's a limit, like 4 billion or 4 trillion or something. There's a limit. Don't worry too much about that. There is a choice that you make. You tend to use floating point numbers for things like temperatures or speed. 
Turns out that you don't use floating point for money. You don't use it for money. Even though in our first examples we'll be bad and we'll use it for money. But shh, don't tell anybody that I'm using floating point for money. If you want, you can play with floating point and start finding some things where money goes bad. Okay. There's actually a number of different movie plots that have to do with computer programs that use floating point for money. 
I think Office Space is one of them that I particularly like, but there's other ones as well. Why you don't use floating point for money? I kind of got off track on that, but that's okay. So we also have a set of built in functions that can convert from one type to another. There's float, there's int. And so float is a function. It again has parentheses. 
We pass in 99. So as this expression is being evaluated, it has to call float. It passes in 99 and then what comes back is 99.0, which is a floating point representation of the number 99. 99 and 99.0 are not the same. This is a floating point number. So when this addition happens, it produces 199.0. So that is a floating point 199.0. You are Force converting. 
By putting this calling float, you are force converting that to a floating point number. If we look at like I is 42, we ask what type it is. Well, that I is an integer. We can take a variable and pass it into the float function and get back 42.0. 42.0 comes back and we say, what kind of thing is in F? Well, F is a float. So you can see how we're manipulating the type of things and controlling it. 
And anytime we get a little confused, we use the type function and say, hey, what's going on here? Why don't I understand what's going on here? Integer division is something that actually changed between Python 2 and Python 3. It's one of the bigger changes, the bigger non upwards compatible changes between Python 2 and Python 3. And so this I'm just reviewing, there are some things that were different in Python 2. So 10 divided by 2, even those are both integers, produces a floating point result. This makes kind of, doesn't make much difference in if these are evenly divisible, but if they're not evenly divisible, it makes a big difference. 
So 9 over 2 is 4.5. Think about like if you put in 9 divided by 2 in a calculator, you wouldn't expect it to say 4. And in Python 2 it said 4. It actually truncated, actually threw this bit away. But in Python 3 it just automatically converts divisions to floating point. And so it works out quite nice. Okay, so 9 over 2 is 4.5. 
In Python 2, this used to be 4, and then 99, 100 is 0.99, exactly what you'd expect in Python 3. In Python 2 that was a zero. Why? Because it truncated, it didn't even round the numbers, it chopped them off. So this was really quite a silly artifact of Python 2. In Python 2, if you get stuck in Python 2, you just use floating point numbers. And once either side of the division or any other operation is a floating point number, then the calculation is done in floating point. 
So if it's floating point, if it's floating point input on either side, then it's floating point output. And this is what we used to have to do kind of in Python 2, is force things to be floating. If we're doing divisions, it wouldn't hurt to do it in Python 3. But now integer division in Python 3 makes a lot more sense, thank heaven. Okay, string conversions. So if we read data, which we're going to see in a second, from the outside world, it comes in as strings. Whether reading from a network or from a database, we tend to get these things as strings. 
And so what we're showing here is a string value that's 123, but it's not really 123, it's three characters. It might as well be A, B, C. So 1, 2, 3 are the first three characters. So we take this string constant, we put it in there, and we say, okay, what kind of thing is in there? It's a string. And if we try to add one to it, as we saw before, you add a string and an integer and it gets really. Python gets really unhappy. 
Can't convert int object to string implicitly. But what if we know that inside of this string are actually digits and we want to get an integer representation or a floating point representation of that? Well, in that case, we can call the int function or the float function, passing in a string and getting back an integer. So this basically reads these characters, the 1, 2, 3, and goes, that's 123, and gives us back 123, and we say, what kind of thing is in there? Well, now, in Ival, there's an int. Now, I'm being mnemonic here. I'm remembering that this is an integer and this is a string. 
But Python doesn't care what I name my variables. Remember, Python never cares about what I name my variables. So if I start naming them conveniently, don't all of a sudden think that everything that starts with a prefix I is an integer, and everything that starts with a prefix S is a string. It'll be a number of lectures before I stop reminding you of that. So Ival ends up with an integer, the number 123, and now we can indeed add one to it, because it's an integer and Python's happy, and out comes a 124. So this works pretty well. Unless the string in question has no digits. 
So there's no digits. It's going to blow up. It's like, whoa. Now let's read it. Traceback means I quit. Where? Line one. 
It's always line one because we're in this interactive environment. But if you were in a script, it would tell you what line it is. And then it says invalid literal for int with a base 10x, and that's like, okay, it's not working very well. And so, you know, say, that's an invalid litter. And again, we'll find ways to cope with this in later lectures. Okay, now, how do we get data from the outside world? So this is the keyboard. 
Eventually we'll talk to networks and databases and files, but right now we want to take the keys from the keyboard and get it into a variable. So we have another function, a special function, the input function. And when Python comes running in here, it starts the input function, and the parameter to the input function is what's called a prompt. It prints out who are you? And then it waits. And then we type into the keyboard chuck. And then we hit the enter key. 
And then it takes this string right here. And. And then it puts it in this variable right here. It is a string. Even if I typed in 1234, it would be the string 1234, not 1234. Okay? And so that is the way. 
And so this program, at this point, pauses until we type and we hit the enter key. And then it takes that line of input, including spaces, whatever I've typed, and puts it in that variable. And then the program continues. And in this case, it just prints out welcome comma, and then the contents of the variable nam, and in this case, this space right here that you see between welcome and chuck, that is caused by this comma. So we've mostly seen print being printing one thing, but you can have as many things as you want with commas in print, and every comma adds a space. And so it's kind of friendly. If you wanted to, you'd have to concatenate these things together to eliminate that space. 
But most commonly, you're printing out a list of things. You probably want spaces between it. Okay, so that's how we read input. Up next, we're going to combine all these things, and we're going to make our very first program that does actually something useful. So we'll see in a bit. 