​So before lunch we developed a logical model, ​after lunch we developed a physical model. ​And sort of implemented it in the database and then we went home for the night. ​And now it's the next morning and it's time to insert some data into our tables. ​Now, you've got to remember all the keys and fields and stuff like that. ​Just like we're inserting data from kind of like the outward simple things ​to the more central ones, we're going to do the same thing when we insert data. ​Okay? ​And so we're using the INSERT INTO. 
​And this is a good time to point out that the keywords inside of SQL like ​insert into, the case doesn't matter. ​The names of the tables, the names of the columns, may or may not matter, and ​the actual data you put in that's case sensitive because that's your data. ​So I'm going to type INSERT INTO Artist. ​And the key thing that is important here is we're not specifying the id field. ​So if you recall, in the Artist table we have an id field and a name field. ​But if you look over here, the id field is an auto-generated field. ​It's not really showing up very well because we don't have a type. 
​So the id field is auto-generated. ​So when I write this SQL ​I don't need to specify the id because as part of our contract we made a contract ​with a database that says, you assign that. ​So I'm going to run this now, INSERT INTO Artist with a name of Led Zeppelin. ​And if then we Browse Data and we go look at the artist, it's added the number 1. ​Kind of predictable. You can kind of guess where the next one's going to be, ​so the next one thing we're going to do is we're going to insert another artist in, ​we're going to insert AC/DC in. ​And, we inserted that. 
​Now, if we go take a look at the data again, we got 2. ​And if we did a new record here, it would automatically provide this for us, right? ​I mean, it would let us change this, but it would want to pick the next number 3. ​So what we've done here is both inserted the record, ​but we've also established for within this database a new number. ​1 means Led Zepplin, and 2 means AC/DC. Okay? ​So then, the next thing we're going to do is insert in the Genre, ​kind of working outward in, and insert the value Rock and ​the value Metal, and now I'm going to show you a little trick here. ​You can actually, in this user interface of most of these things, ​not just this one, you can usually put more than one command in as long as you ​put a semicolon at the end of it. 
​So I'm going to, if I did that right, semicolon at the end of it. ​So I'm going to do an INSERT INTO Genre of Rock and ​an INSERT INTO Genre of Metal and I'm going to run the SQL. ​Oh, I wonder if I did it twice. ​I did. ​So I'll just delete this record. ​Good bye. ​Delete that record. 
​Good bye. ​So I did two inserts and I hit the botton twice, so ​that's how I ended up with two copies of it. ​So Rock for the rest of this lecture is the value 1 and Metal is the value 2. ​And again now when we're making the Track table we don't have to put Rock, Rock, Rock, ​Rock, Rock, we just put 1, 1, 1, 1, 1. ​Because 1 is not a string but it's a number, that turns out to be okay. ​So now we're going to take a look at the album and ​this is the first situation where we've got to do a primary key, a foreign key, right? ​So we got an Album table. 
​And the Album has a primary key which is going to be automatically generated for us. ​And a foreign key called artist_id. ​Because the album points to the artist. ​And we only add data at the starting point of these arrows and so ​that's what we're doing. ​So this one we have to put in title but we don't have to put in id so we don't have ​to put that in but we do have to explicitly put in artist_id. So when you insert ​into Album you're going to have a title and then we're going to have an artist_id. ​This number we have to remember that 2 was AC/DC and 1 was Led Zeppelin. 
​Now when we're doing this by hand it's a little tricky and ​you find yourself flipping back and forth to remember like, ​oh which one was Led Zeppelin, which one was AC/DC? ​And it seems like in the short term it'd be easier just to put the string in, but ​that's the whole thing we're trying to avoid. Okay? ​So for foreign keys we have to put the numbers in explicitly ​because we or the code we write has got to remember them. ​So remembering what these numbers are, the 2 and the 1, is a lot easier for ​a program to remember than it is for you to remember doing this by hand. ​Now normally you wouldn't insert this stuff, ​you would have code that inserts it, and it's really easy for it to say, ​oh I just inserted Genre, and just I inserted Rock, and I got back a 2. ​So actually you can get that, and so you the human don't have to remember this. 
​So let's run these. ​This is our first one that's doing, ​and I'll put a semicolon here so we can do it all at once. ​And I'll only push the button once. ​Okay, and if we do Browse Data and we look at the Album, ​the id was auto-generated and artist_id was something that we chose and ​title was something that we put in, so now we're in pretty good shape. ​Now the last thing we're going to do is probably the most complex. ​But it's not. ​We have and id's come in for free, title is data, ​the length, rating, and count, that's just data. 
​And then we have two arrows, right, pointing to Album and Genre. ​Album and Genre, and so we have two foreign keys. ​Now here is where we have replication now. ​Those two are going to the same album, and these two are going to the same album. ​Same genre, same genre. ​It's okay to have replication as long as they're numbers. ​That's really the essence of what we've done. 
​We just like went in a big circle. ​Took replicated strings and turned them into replicated numbers. ​So these are okay. ​And so then what you're going to do, ​is you're just going to take each of these rows that you know. ​Well, we don't need that. ​Clear. ​Take each of these rows, and you know most of the data. 
​We're going to put in the title, we're going to put in the album_id, the length, ​the rating, the count. ​Put all those things in ​explicitly, this comes automatically, and we're going to do that. ​title, rating, length, count, album_id, genre_id. ​And then we have the values, and then these are the two foreign key values. ​And they point to those rows. ​And again this is the point in time where you sort of have written down on a piece of paper ​what these little numbers were if you were doing it by hand. ​It won't be too bad. ​I luckily have them cut and pasted, so they are all easy for me. 
​And if you are following along, then you just cut and paste these guys. ​And I'll be super lazy, and I'll copy all four SQL statements, and ​run over here, paste them in, and then I am going to put a semicolon, ​carefully, not on each line, but at the end of the values thing, ​So I'll put a semicolon on each of these guys. ​Forgot to put a semicolon on the last one. ​And I'm going to hit the run, and I'll look at the data. ​And I'll look at the Track data. ​And there we are. ​It's all there. 
​We can kind of move this over. ​And that's the Track data and again we specified all those things. ​So if you look at all these tables, we've constructed them outwardly in. ​We started like at the Genre and the Artist and worked our way in so ​that we could establish those numbers so then we could link ​to those numbers as we put things in the Album and then we established numbers. ​And so the foreign keys are the starting points, the primary keys the ending points ​and we worked in. And so we have replication of numbers in this column but ​we don't have replication of strings. ​So the word Rock, if you look at all this data. 
​Okay that's a bad example, forget that. ​The word Metal is better. ​That doesn't count, that's just a title, that's not really the word Rock. ​The word Metal as a genre only appears once in the entire ​database. ​And the thing about it is like what if there were a million of these, right? ​One million. ​You say okay, what's the difference? 
​The word metal verses whatever. ​Versus the number 2. ​If there's millions of them it's not just that it takes up storage, ​it's it has to do with how much has to be scanned. ​So part of what you're trying to do in databases is reduce the amount of data that ​has to be scanned to get to a particular piece of information. ​And so the difference between Metal, which might actually be 128 characters, and ​a number, which is actually four characters, that turns out to be different. And it's not that ​we can't start on disk drives. Disk drives are big. It's just that we can't scan past ​it fast enough and we can't built indexes so we can jump past it even faster, okay? 
​So that's what we have achieved in this section, ​is we've inserted all these data and we've linked things together and ​we've modeled relationships and connection points rather than replicating data. 