​So, now we're going ​to talk about extracting data. ​Up to now, we've just been playing with the search which gives us ​back a true or a false depending on whether it matches or not. ​But now we're going to actually pull stuff out. ​So, we're going to start by looking at a different regular expression, ​a new regular expression. ​The square bracket is kind of weird and that it is one character. ​So, that is describing in between the square brackets what we mean by a single character. ​We can have a range in here. 
​We can have a list of things, ​like AEIOU would be vowels. ​Zero through nine is digit. ​So, bracket zero dash nine bracket is a single digit. ​But then, we added a plus to it and that says one or more digits. ​Now, if we put a star that zero or more digits which is kind of silly. ​But one or more digits, ​and now we're going to use a function called findall, ​a function in the regular expression library called findall. ​So, what we're saying here is this is the string we're looking through, ​x, and we're looking for the pattern, ​one or more digits. 
​So, then it's going to look and say, ​"Oh let me see, one or more digits." ​Oh! That looks good I like that one. ​Let's keep looking. That's good and let's keep looking and that's good. ​So, it may find zero, ​it may find one, or it may find more than one. ​So, what it does is it runs ​all the way through the texts that you've asked it to look for, ​checking to see when this matches, ​and it gives us back a list of the matches. 
​So, it extracts out the pieces. ​So, this is kind of like a split in a for loop, ​and checking to see if it's a number and a whole bunch of ​stuff all rolled into one in one little programming. ​Because findall- findall, if it gives us nothing, ​will give us an empty list but in this case, ​it's given us three strings. ​Now they're not numbers, ​this is the string 2, ​this is the string 19, ​and that's the string 42. ​But that's what we get back. ​We get back a list from findall of all the possible matches. ​Okay. Pretty powerful. 
​Okay. So, it returns zero more things, ​we can, in this case, ​we asked for one or more digits. ​In this case, I'm saying one or more, ​so that's a single character. ​It's an uppercase vowel, ​A E I O U, all uppercase. ​Plus means greater than one or greater than or equal to one. ​So, there's got to be at least one and you say "Are there any uppercase vowels in here?" ​No no no no no no no. 
​So, it doesn't find it. ​So, I get back nothing. So, it has to give me a list. ​Find all of the substrings that ​match that regular expression and given back to me, there were none. ​So, you have an empty list. ​So, you do have to check to see how many things you got back? ​Because you might get one, you might get zero, ​you'll get like in 25 things back ​from a particular regular expression when you give it a line. 
​Now, as you're thinking about this, ​you think of the regular expression. ​It's almost like a stamp or it's going stamp stamp stamp. ​Can I? Is this piecework? ​Is this piecework? Does this piece match? Does this piece match? 
​The problem is there is this notion in the matching called Greedy Matching, ​and unless you say otherwise, ​the regular expression library attempts to give you ​the largest possible version of the string that you're matching. ​So, here we have the first character as an F. Any character, ​one or more times, ​and then I start with a colon. ​If this is the text that we're looking at, you would say "Oh, ​yeah there's the beginning F, and there's a characters and there's a colon, were done." ​The problem is that it doesn't stop there. ​It's like "Oh, wait a sec." ​Technically, this also matches, so what do we get back? 
​Do we get back the from? ​Or do we get back the whole thing? ​Greedy Matching says you're going to get back the larger thing, ​and that's exactly what you get, ​and so all else being equal, ​you got to be careful when you construct these things. ​Now, I could have put non blank in there but I'm doing this to make the point ​to say that in a sense this is pushing. That's the greediness. ​Is that this wants to be as big as it ​possibly can be and then still match the entire expression. ​So, if you're thinking stamping this expression on that string, ​you can stamp it on the small thing or you can stamp it on the big thing, ​it says "I'll take the big thing." 
​Now, you can override this. ​But basically, you can think of this kind of these wildcards is very pushy. ​Very pushy outwards, greedy as larger possible string, ​and that's what we mean by greedy. ​Both the asterisk and the plus push outwards as far as push as wide as they can. ​But just like everything in regular expressions, ​so you can fix that with another character. ​So, now we have a three character sequence. ​To the plus or the asterisk, ​we can add a question mark. 
​So, this says any character, ​one or more times, ​but don't be greedy. ​So, now it looks at it and says "Okay, I've got a beginning F, ​and I can stop here, ​or I can stop here, ​but I am not greedy." ​So, the Non-Greedy prefers the shortest. ​The greedy prefers the longest. ​The Non-Greedy prefers the shortest, and so this is what we get. ​Again, when you're writing code using regular expressions, ​it's really important that you test your code, ​so that you see kind of weird anomalies like this like "Wow! ​Why did I get that? What's going on? 
​Why not that?" Then you run it and then you rise, "Oh yeah. ​It's Greedy Matching. It pushed really hard." ​Usually, it doesn't take too long to figure that out, ​but you do have to sometimes check it and so ​sometimes you got to like do something like I had this question mark, don't be greedy. ​Okay, so just a fascinating thing, you're coding. ​That's like an if statement. 
​The question mark is like an if statement. ​Hey, do the shortest one and you communicate that in a single letter. ​That's why they're kind of fun or like a whole programming language in characters. ​Okay. So, here we have- we're looking for the email address. ​The common one of the things we're trying to do is ​take those from lines and terrible part, right? ​So, what we say is "Hey, ​let's go find everything that matches a non-blank character, ​one or more non-blank characters followed by an @ sign, ​followed by one or more non-blank characters." 
​So, yeah. This a non-blank character, but there's no @ sign. ​This is non-blank character, ​oh yeah there's an @ sign followed by some non-blank characters. ​So, that's a yes match, ​and then none of these other sets of non-blank characters match that, right? ​So, that comes out, and so there you go and we get out exactly what you'd ​expect we get the non-blank characters ​followed by an @ sign followed by some more non-blank characters. ​I've gotten pluses to make them be one or more. ​\S is a non-blank character, ​if you go back to the cheat sheet, ​that was part of the non-blank character. 
​Okay. You can think of this as also greedy meaning they're kind of pushing. ​So, this technically d@u ​would be a one or more non-blank characters followed by an @ sign, ​followed by one or more non-blank characters. ​But with greediness, it pushes outward, ​and so it goes as far as it can unless when you do want to be greedy so you get this. ​If you made this Non-Greedy, ​you would get d@u. ​So, that also kind of helps you understand how greediness and Non-Greedy wants. ​Now, we can adjust how findall works by using parentheses, ​but this is not really using parentheses here, ​so we'll do that next. 
​So, we can fine tune the string extraction, ​and have more that we're matching than we're extracting. ​So, if we look at this particular example, ​where we add carrot from space and ​then some non-black- one or more non-blank characters followed by an @ sign, ​one or more non-blank characters, ​This matches this, right? ​So, it's a from, followed by a space, ​followed by one or more non-blank characters, ​followed by an at sign, followed by one or more non-blank characters. ​It's like this part here is a match. ​But we don't actually want to get back the whole thing, ​and so we can add parentheses. ​So, what I'm doing is I'm saying, ​start extracting after the space, ​from space is part of the match but the extracted part starts here, ​and then the extracted part ends here. ​So, that says, this is the part that I ​want to extracted even though I demand this to match. 
​So, I'm demanding, I'm extracting less than what I'm matching. ​I'm using the matching to be very precise as to the lines I want, ​and then I'm using the parentheses that I add to pull out what I want. ​So, here I get back exactly the email address, ​even though now I'm already in this one thing, ​making sure it's from lines that have a prefix of from space. ​So, I've got lines of prefixes from ​space extract the second thing and now it's not just anything, ​but it's got to be from space and then immediately non-blank for characters, ​followed by an at sign, followed by non-blank characters. ​So, again this is really fine tuning. ​Okay, so let's take a look at this thing that we're doing long ​time ago but without regular expressions. ​And so the idea is we want to pull this little bit out. 
​Here's the old one, we find the at position which is position 21 and so that gives us 21, ​we start at that position, so, ​we look up and we say when's the next space? ​We get 31, and that comes into here. ​So, we say we want to do a string slice from one ​beyond the app position up to but not including the space, ​remember up to but not including. ​That prints us out this little piece. ​But we can do a similar thing ​with regular expressions and we've seen this with dual split. ​So, this is the find way of pulling that out, dual split is, ​we split it into words with spaces, ​then we grab the second one, ​we split that by at signs and then we grab the second piece of that. ​So, we take the second word, ​we split that second word by at sign, ​and then we take the second piece, and then we get this. 
​So, we were able to do that with four lines, ​a little more elegant. ​But if we do regular expressions, we can say, hey, ​go find me an at sign, ​followed by some number of non-blank characters. ​I don't want to extract the at sign, ​see where I put the parentheses, ​I want to start extracting after the at sign ​and up to the rest of those non-blank characters. ​So, that says "buf," I've got what I want. ​So, it's a way to say in a little expression. ​Match a non-blank character, that's with the brackets, ​so that's another syntax and that is, ​this is a single character but if the first letter ​of the set inside there is the character, ​that means not, everything but. ​So, that means everything but a space, that's non-blank. 
​So that's everything but a space asterisk. ​There's other ways to do that, ​but that's what this is saying. ​That's a single non-blank character zero or more times but that's what I want to extract, ​and again outcomes this little bit. ​We can fine tune this by saying I want to start with from in the line, ​I want to space, ​but I want any number of characters up to an at, ​and then I want to begin extracting all the non-blank characters, ​and then end extracting. ​So, this is adding this bit to it, ​this fine tuning that's also in a way could be used to filter the line. ​So, if you if you didn't have a from line, ​you would get nothing back, ​and you're not finding email addresses in the middle of text, ​you're just finding email addresses on lines that start with from space. ​So, you just build these things up, ​you tell the regular expression what you want back, ​and you get back a list. 
​Like I said, you got to check to see if the list is empty ​because that is your way of knowing that it didn't match anything. ​So, here's a little bit of code that sort of uses ​regular expressions to both pick lines and extract data. ​So, this is similar to one of ​the assignments where you're going to look for lines that have a form like this, ​they say X dash DSPAM Confidence colon, ​space, and then a floating point number. ​So, we're going to run through this, ​we'll open the data, we'll read through the lines, ​we're going to strip the data, ​and now we're going to use, find all, ​to look for lines that start with X dash DSPAM dash Confidence colon. ​Quite a bit it's tough, it's got to match every character, ​followed by a blank, then start extracting, ​take zero to nine and period because we're looking for floating point numbers, so, ​we want to get the period, bracket, ​one or more times, ​and that's what we're interested in. ​Now, here's the part where you have to check. ​If we are looking for a line that we looking for here, ​there's going to be exactly one successful extraction. 
​If you don't have the prefix or don't have the number, ​then you're gonna get zero extractions. ​So, what I'm basically saying is, ​this stuff is a list of the matches, ​if that length is not one, ​meaning it's bad if it's two because that means ​there's more floating point numbers out here, how did that happen? ​Do we know or who knows what? ​It's unlikely that this is going to match more than one, ​so, we're not going to do that. ​It's one floating point number is what we got on the line, ​then we're in good shape. ​Otherwise, we're going to skip that line, ​and so this is both a filtering like an if blah, blah, blah, ​continue or if not starts with continue, ​and if it finds it, ​it also parsed the line and done the split and pulled all those things out. ​So, that's how with regular expressions, ​you can make programs more succinct. 
​When you see someone else's regular expression, ​it might take you a little while to figure out what the heck this is doing. ​You have to read it but the nice thing is it's not a bunch of lines, ​and so it's a way to make your programs shorter, don't overuse it, ​put a few comments in, ​pound sign blah, blah, blah, ​pound sign blah, blah, blah, ​this is looking for a line that's of this particular syntax and blah, ​blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ​some kind of comment that help your reader out. ​But once you get used to them and you will start to see them, ​they are often used for data validation, ​for searching and extracting. ​Now, we've got all these characters, weird little characters, ​dollar signs, carrots etc., ​and sometimes we actually want to match those characters. ​So, we have one more special character and it's the backslash, ​and the backslash just can be prefixed otherwise active character, ​so, dollar sign has meaning, ​but slash dollar sign means it's a really a dollar sign. ​So, if I'm looking for strings that start with a dollar sign, ​have a numbers and dots, ​and the non-blank characters, that says, ​give me the strings that start with dollar sign, ​one or more numbers and or dots, ​and so that then matches this bit right here and pulls it out. ​So, escape characters when you really want one of those characters like a bracket, ​or an asterisk, or a plus, or a dot. 
​So, that's a quick zoom through regular expressions. ​They're fun, they're fascinating, ​they lead to elegant code when used appropriately. ​I would suggest you don't overuse them, ​but there are some times that they just are the right thing to do, ​and so don't try to confuse your reader of your code, ​because the reader of your code might be you in the future, ​but they're really interesting and powerful and you'll probably see code that uses them. ​So, thanks a lot. 