​So welcome to Chapter 11. ​Chapter 11's kind of a fun chapter because you don't ​really need to know regular expressions. ​And so, if you just want to skip ahead, or maybe do the assignment or ​whatever, but this is kind of fun, regular expressions are a neat little thing. ​They are a real old concept, they're kind of an ancient notion and ​having to do with the study of languages, ​not really exactly computer programming languages, but languages, and grammars, ​and what is in a language and what is not in the language, and ​a regular expression is a form of a language, and meaning ​it's a way to say that a set of strings match or don't match a regular expression. ​And from the 1960s to today, lots of operating systems have ​used regular expressions as a more intelligent form of search. ​So it's like, look for this expression, ​but it's not just like, hello, it's like h, followed by one letter, ​followed by ll, followed by a vowel, or something like that. ​So that's the idea of a regular expression, ​is that instead of just giving characters, you have sort of, it's almost like ​a little miniature wildcard programming expression that's kind of cool. 
​It ends up being a programming language, but it's not like an iteration ​programming language, it's a programming language that's like match, match, match, ​match, question mark, question mark, question mark. ​It's really kind of fun. ​So if you think about you search through stuff all the time, ​we just search through documents, we search through emails, we search through ​things, it just is a really, really smart way to look through lots of text. ​And they're powerful and cryptic. ​It's kind of fun, once you know how to use them, because they're very, ​very powerful, and you can add a little character here and do these things, ​and if you had to do something the same way with ​the sophistication of regular expressions, you'd have to write quite a bit of code. ​And so there's a way to reduce your code. ​But they also aren't something that people are natural. 
​It's not as easy to learn as, say, an if statement. ​But it's old and it's kind of fun, and ​here's an xkcd cartoon about just how completely ​totally awesome regular expressions are, ​and how we sort of think of them as somehow mysterious and powerful ​and that those who know regular expressions are somehow special. ​So, I have this regular expression quick guide. ​The key to regular expressions is that instead of programming with lines, ​you're programming actually with characters. ​And so the caret character isn't just a caret in regular expressions, ​it means beginning of line. ​Dollar sign means the end of line. ​Dot means any character. 
​Now this is a very, very cryptic and arcane language. ​Bracket means the beginning of a set of characters. ​Parenthesis means start extracting. ​Other parenthesis means stop extracting. ​So these are all like a programming language. ​It's a programming language for string matching. ​That's why I gave you this handout, you can go grab that, ​you can print it out, any time you want to look at it, you can save yourself. 
​There's actually a lot more stuff, and if you look at the Python documentation, ​it'll tell you that it turns out that lots of things have ​regular expressions in them. ​Lots of languages. ​Java, JavaScript, and there's overlap and most of them are kind of the same, ​but every once in a while, there will be some feature that's a little bit weird and ​different. ​So inside Python, there's regular expressions are sort of not ​built into the base language, like strings or lists or dictionaries. ​And so we have to import at the beginning with the import statement that says, ​pull in the regular expression library for this program. ​And there's a couple things we're going to play with. ​One is re.search, ​which is the search capability from the regular expression library, ​and that tells you yes or no, did it work, and it's like a really smart find. 
​And then findall is like an extraction. ​It's way more powerful than slicing, but it is the idea of ​finding the beginning and end of a bit of stuff, and pulling that out. ​So we'll talk about both of these things. ​So I'll start by showing you some code. ​And show you sort of before/after. ​And so this is just showing you how you use the search capability from ​a regular expression like a find operation. ​So this, again, is our little thing we're reading through and we're saying, ​if this line.find from is greater than or equal to 0. 
​So, this is the position, and if it's greater than or equal to 0, ​then we're going to print it. ​So we're searching, some of the lines we're going to skip, ​some of the lines we're going to print. ​Most of the lines we're going to skip and then we're going to print once in a while. ​Same kind of thing. ​Everything here is the same, except because we're using regular expressions, ​we have to import the regular expression library. ​We open the file, ​we're going to loop through, and that if we're going to do is say re.search. ​Now, this is kind of the object oriented pattern where we take a variable name ​.method. 
​Here we have library name.function, and then we have to pass in ​the line that we're searching within and then the string that we're searching for. ​And then this returns a true or a false, whether or not this match happened. ​Now this is a very simple regular expression, and ​I've carefully not used any of the special characters for regular expressions. ​So it really functions exactly the same as find, and this gets us started. ​I would probably not use regular expressions for something this simple, ​but as you'll see, we can do a lot more powerful things with regular expression ​than we can with the string library. ​So, we can also use search like the startswith function, and so that time ​we're using find. ​And now we're going to use startswith. 
​And so we say oh, it's this prefix, does it match a prefix, ​because that's what startswith does for strings. ​And so this code is pretty straightforward. ​We know how this works. ​And if starts with from, we're going to print it, otherwise, ​we're going to skip it. ​To do that with regular expressions, it's a little different. ​We look inside strings for ​a different function does a different thing for us, right? ​But in regular expressions, what we do is we tweak the matching string, ​so the only thing we do to indicate that we want this search to match ​the beginning of the line, is we add a special character, ​we add this caret character, and that caret character is not really a caret. 
​What it says is, I want the F to be the first character of the line, ​so caret F means F at the beginning of the line. ​So that's a way of matching, not from anywhere in the line, and so ​this returns a true, if the From is at the beginning of the line, and a false, ​if there is no From at the beginning of the line. ​From can be somewhere else in the line, you'll still get a false, right? ​And so that's the trick to regular expressions, is we begin to write ​code in between these double quotes, and this stuff gets increasingly complex, and ​then we achieve that what we want to do by more and more complex things. ​And so we are going to change these wildcard expressions. ​So, just as an example, here's another one that may want to represent a bunch ​of things, and we're introducing the dot character and the dot is any character. ​It is any character. 
​Star, in the wildcards like the dir.*.*, ​that means any character but star means zero or more times, zero or more. ​zero or more. ​Zero or more times. So that basically says, if we translate this little regular ​expression with English, is I'm looking for lines that have an X at the beginning, ​capital X, followed by any number of characters, followed by a colon. ​So a colon's not a special character, X is not a special character, but ​caret is a special character, dot and star are. ​There, if you go back to that little cheat sheet, that's what those things do. ​And so the kinds of things that this is going to match, the kinds of lines is ​lines that start with X, followed by some number of characters, followed by a colon. 
​X, followed by some number of characters, followed by a colon. ​Lines that don't match this, and so ​this is quite a powerful little thing because it matches all of those. ​It's not like saying, starts with X. ​It's like X, followed by some number of characters, followed by a colon. ​True or false? ​And it would skip lines or give you false on lines that did not meet that, right? ​And so that's the idea that caret matches the start of the line, ​the dot is any character, and star means as many times as you like. 
​Now, you may want to narrow this down just a little bit, right? ​And so, starting with the X, that might not be good enough, okay? ​And so, we might not want to include, for example, this line right here, ​because we really want these to be not spaces, right? ​So, this X-Plane is behind schedule. ​This doesn't really look like what we intended for it to look like. ​This is a mail header that starts with X-Sieve, X-something, X-this, ​but the X-Plane behind schedule is not actually a match. ​Now it will match, because technically, it starts with an X, ​it has any number of characters, and it has a colon. 
​But we want to be a little more precise, and so we fine tune it. ​And so we say, I want matches that start with an X, followed by a dash, ​followed by, and this is a special character, any non-whitespace character, ​plus, it's like asterisk, but it's one or more times, so that's greater than or ​equal to one time, so greater than this bit here says greater than or ​equal to one non-blank character, followed by a colon. ​So, this is starts with X dash, greater than or ​equal to one non-blank character, followed by a colon, that's a true. ​This one is X dash, followed by greater than one non-blank character, ​blanks don't count. ​And then that one's a true. ​This one is starts with X dash, followed by one or ​more, oop, no colon, because it has to match the whole thing. ​So it's like taking this is like a template and applying it to this line. 
​This is a blank character, ​which violates this rule of must be non-blank characters up to the colon, ​and so it's really searching for a colon because colon is also required. ​So this does not meet the requirements because of these blanks, and so ​that gives us a false. ​And so all I'm saying here is you can kind of add a little more detail and ​hit on lines that you are sure that you want to hit on. ​So up next, what we're going to do is we're going to not just look for data and ​give us true/falses, whether we found it, we're actually going to start pulling ​pieces out, extracting data, and so that's what's up next. 