Welcome back. Now we're going to continue on the right-hand side of assignment statements and talk a little bit more about some complexity about what you can do with these expressions. All programming languages have various operators where you say x+1 or x-1 or something like that. These operators historically come from the characters that were on computer keyboards in the 1960s. Literally, these things called teletypes came from the end of World War II, and they had a certain set of characters. We were going from mathematical character set where multiplication is a big cross or a dot in the middle and exponentiation is raising a little tiny number above it. We just couldn't represent those on these really rudimentary key punches or rudimentary terminals. 
So we had to map mathematical formulas and functions into what could be done. Those keyboards from 40 years ago, 50 years ago, they had a plus on it, so plus is plus. They had a minus on it. But multiplication, which is normally cross, is star, and division, which you can't put things on top of one another, so you just made a slash for division, and raising to the power is double star. Now, the remainder operator is something that's not typically on calculators, but it's really important for computers, and we'll take a look at this. The addition operator, pretty straightforward. I've been using that without even talking about it. 
The multiplication and the division. This is 5,280/1,000, which gives me 5.28. But the one that's probably the most interesting is this modulo or remainder operation. The way the remainder operation works, in particular, if this is an integer, is it does the division. It's almost like a division, j/5, but instead of giving the quotient, this is the quotient, it gives the remainder. 5/23 is 4 remainder 3. The 3 is what you get back. Now, you might ask yourself, why is this useful? 
One of the ways to make this useful is to pick a large random number and then use the modulo operator, the remainder operator with 52, and then you end up with a number between 0 and 51, and then you can pick a card. You can take a random number, but you modulo at 52, and now you can have a random number, that is a card. If you want to roll a dice, you make a big random number and you take it modulo 6, and then it tells you what side of the dice. Like games and stuff. There's other situations where you can do even and odd calculations like is this odd number, and even number, divide it by 2 and see what the remainder is. This whole notion of the modulo operator, it's really useful in some situations. That's why we obsess about it a little bit. 
The power operator, this is 4*4*4, which is 64. Those are the numeric expressions. Now, these also have an order of evaluation. The way it works is in mathematics, there's order of evaluation. There are some operators that are more powerful than other operators. You can always, if you're clever, just put parentheses in. Most programmers always put parentheses in. 
If I was writing this line of code and I want it to be friendly to you so that you could read it more easily, I would simply put the parentheses in for you. I'd say 5^6 goes first, then this 4 divided by that goes next, then this 2*3 goes next, and then we evaluate the rest of these things left to right. I just added the parentheses. This is exactly the same as what it would be without the parentheses because this happens first, this part here happens second, this happens third, and then all this other stuff happens fourth. There's an order. But we're going to teach you what the order is if you weren't going to use parentheses. The rule is parentheses override everything. 
Exponentiation is the most powerful multiplication and division, and remainder are equal. They're the next most powerful in addition of subtraction. Then when in doubt, you just go left to right. If there's a bunch of additions, you just go left to right. Or if there's an addition and subtractions and a bunch of stuff, you go left to right. This is a classic exam question on computer science homework that you just say what does this evaluate to? Now, of course, if you have a Python, you just type it in, and it tells you what the answer is. 
The way I used to do these back in the day when I was doing these homework, because I would write the expression down on a piece of paper. Then I would look through it and I would figure out what the first thing was. I'd be very careful about this. I'm like exponentiation happens first, so I'll do the 2^3, which is 8, and then I'll rewrite the whole thing, 1+8/4*5. Then I would forget about this one and I'd look here, and I go what's the first thing here? Well, 8/4 is the first thing there. Then I'd be like, 8/4, that gives us 2. 
In this case, it gives us 2.0. Then I have 1+2.0*5, and I look, and that's the next one. Actually this ends up being 10.0, and that ends up being 11.0. That's why this prints out 11.0. If there are no parentheses, you can figure out. Another exam question is to ask what the parentheses would be. The exponentiation happens first, the division happens second, and then actually you'd put another parentheses because that result is multiplied by 5. 
That's another way to answer the same question is say put the parentheses in where they belong. Like I said, parentheses first, power second, multiplication third, addition, and then left to right. When you got nothing but addition and subtraction, you go left or right. When you've got nothing but multiplication, division, you go left to right. Start with the left most one. Sometimes it doesn't matter, but in addition and subtraction, it generally doesn't matter, but in multiplication and division, it can matter left to right. 