We've done a bunch of different things, we found the largest, we searched for value, we did some sums, we did some averages, and now we're going to do the smallest value. Just before we do the smallest value, let's review what we did for the largest value. We have this variable called largest so far that we set the -1, and then we print it out and starts being -1 and then we're going to go through this loop, nine, and the largest so far is nine, and then we go 41, we like that one better. Then we like 12, we don't like that. We like three, we don't like that, 74, we keep that, and then 15 doesn't make any difference, and then it pops out, and we get 74. That is the largest, not the largest so far, but the largest you would get. The question is, what would we do to change this to make it search for the smallest value in the list? Now, you can look. 
Humans are good at this. Hey, what's the smallest value? It's three. Yeah, of course. You know that. Now, we got to think like a computer. How are we going to find the smallest value in the list? 
What would we change here? What are some of the things you might change? Well, there's at least a couple of things you would change. The first thing you would do is let's just change this from a greater than sign to a less than sign. Let's just change the word large to small. Is that going to fix it? Take a second. 
If I changed all the word largest to the word smallest, and I changed the greater than to a less than, is that going to fix it? If I did that, what number is going to come out here? Is it going to be three? Is that going to come out? If I did this, is that going to make it better? Is it going to print three? Obviously, if I'm staring at you, probably it's not going to. 
This is a trick question. It was a trick question. This is what happens when you run. We start out. Small so far is -1. We come in with nine. Is nine less than -1? 
No, it is not, so we skip. The smallest we've seen so far is -1. Let me go back up. Is 41 less than -1? No, it is not, so we skip. The smallest so far is -1. 12, no, three is not smaller than -1. 74 is not smaller than -1, 15 is not smaller than -1. Out we come, and the smallest we've seen so far is -1. 
No, it is not. What's the flaw in our logic here? First off, the word smallest so far doesn't mean anything. This could be GRP or Zap or X. Just changing the variable to say small so far is highly misleading. At this point, point right at the screen to the one place that has the fallacy, the mistake in this code. If you pointed right here, you're correct. 
Baked into that when we were doing largest so far was that these were positive numbers, and smallest so far, starting -1, if they're positive numbers, well, smallest so far is already smallest in the smallest possible number. What number might we put there to make this work better? Well, some of you might suggest that we would just say, that'll be okay. I'll make that be 100, it's going to work fine, and so nine will tick, 41 will ignore, 12 will not work. Three will tick and it'll work. That's fine. That would work if you made it 100. 
But then what if there was three-digit numbers in here? How would that work? Well, like, let's make it 1,000. Yeah, that's it. No, let's make it a million or like more. What's a big enough number? As a matter of fact, that largest so far code that we did. 
If there were negative numbers and they're all negative, this is not going to work so well. Wait. Largest so far. Yeah, this is just not going to work very well, because what if they're all negative numbers? We just assume they were positive numbers, and it worked just fine, didn't it? There's a flaw. We were using this -1. 
There's a word for it. It's like a flag value. It's not really the smallest number we've seen. It's like an indicator that we haven't seen any numbers. We can't really pick a number for this. Frankly, either in the largest or the smallest, it's just not going to work. What are we going to do? 
This is what we do. We have yet another type of variable. Remember, I had Boolean true and false, integer floating point. There's a variable called none type, none. It only has one constant in it, so Booleans have true and false. Integers have a whole bunch, and then floats have a whole bunch, and nun types have one thing. None. We think of it as the absence of a value, the lack of a value. 
What we're going to do instead is in our smallest variable that we're going to do, we're going to say, you know what? Before this loop starts, the smallest number we've seen is nothing. We've seen no numbers whatsoever, and that's going to be our marker to indicate that we've seen no numbers. This is the found code where we set found to be false, and then later we set found to be true. But we're going to use smallest equals none. None is a variable a value that we can distinctly detect different than numbers. We can say, is the contents of smallest none if smallest is none, like it's more powerful than double equal sign. 
Means, is it exactly the same answer, and so if we are asking is smallest none, that's only true if we've got a none in there. If we put 17 in, smallest is not none, so this is how it works. You start with smallest equals none, and then in the code, we have a little bit more intelligence. If smallest is none, this means that it's the first time. If the smallest is none, smallest is value. Nine is coming in here, and so if the smallest that you've seen so far is empty, we have seen nothing, then we'll grab the first one as the smallest one. Our nine becomes the smallest one, and so that's how we print out the smallest so far is nine, we just saw nine. Then we come up. 
The second time through this loop, this is going to always be false from now on, because smallest is a number, and number is not none. We have this flag value that's none just for the first time through the loop. That's false, so it's going to run here. Elif value is less than the smallest, which is 41 is 41 less than nine, in this case, and the answer is, no, it is not, so it stays nine, then 12, three works, so three causes this code to run, so we grab it. Three is it, then we go through 74 and 15, it runs two more times, and then when we're all done, we get three. This is a flag value. That we're checking and through the loop, it'll only be smallest will only be none the first time through the loop. 
But after that, we'll just ignore this little part. This is another way to think about this is priming us. This is getting started. This technique is a good way to do the largest and the smallest to use this none and then have a little bit of code that triggers the first time through the loop to get your loop carried variable setup. The is not operator, they're both operators. There is and is not are like less than or less than or equal to or not equal to. They don't hurt their operands, and they return you a true or a false. 
Is none and is not is also a logical operator, and there are other times we use it. You shouldn't use is when you should be using double equals. Usually, you're using them for a true, false, or none. We don't overuse is because is a really strong equality. It's a stronger equality than double equals too. The double equals is mathematically equal to with potential conversion, but is a stronger thing, and is not as the opposite of is. In this chapter, we've talked about some definite loops, some indefinite loops, break to get out of loops, continue to pop back up, continue works in for loops as well as while loops, iteration variables, how with while loops, you construct them yourself. 
In for loops, for constructs them for you and things like largest, smallest, counting, average, etc. We looked at some loop idioms where you do something at the beginning, do something in the middle, and then you get to pay off at the end. 