​So we started this entire course printing hello world and I just said quote, ​hello world, quote and out comes hello world. ​And it'd be nice if that was super simple. ​And you know in 1970, it was simple because ​there was pretty much one character set. ​Even in 1970, when I started we didn't even have lowercase characters, ​we just had uppercase characters. ​And I'll tell you we were happy when we just had uppercase characters. ​You kids these days with your lowercase characters and numbers and ​slashes and stuff. ​So the problem that computers have is they have to come up with a way, ​I mean, computers don't understand letters, actually. 
​What computers understand is numbers, and so ​we had to come up with a mapping between letters and numbers. ​And so we came up with a mapping, and there's been many mappings historically. ​The one that sort of is the most common mapping of ​the 1980s is this mapping called ASCII. ​The American Standard Code for Information Interchange. ​And it says basically, this number equals this letter. ​So for example, the number for ​hello world, that for capital H the number is 72. ​Somebody just decided that the capital H was going to be 72. 
​Lowercase e, the number is 101. ​And newline is 10. ​So if you were really and truly going to look at ​what was going on inside the computer, it's storing these as numbers. ​But the problem is, is there are 128 of these. ​Which means that you can't put every character into a 0 through 128. ​And so, ​in the early days we just kind of dealt with whatever characters were possible. ​Like I said, when I started you could only do uppercase. 
​You couldn't even do lowercase, and so ​there is this function, as long as you're dealing with simple values. ​That you can say hey, what is the actual value for the letter H. ​And it's called ord, which stands for ordinal. ​What's the ordinal? ​What is the number corresponding to H, and that's 72. ​What's the number corresponding to lowercase e? It's 101. 
​And what's the number corresponding to newline? And that is a 10. ​Remember, newline is a single character. ​This also kind of explains why the lowercase letters are all greater ​than the uppercase letters, because they're ordinal for ASCII. ​Now, there's so many character sets but just for ​the default old school 128 characters that we could represent with ASCII, ​the uppercase letters had a lower ordinal than lowercase letters. ​So, Hi is less than ​zzz all lowercase, and that's because all lowercase letters are less. ​I mean all uppercase letters are less than all lowercase letters. 
​Actually this can be AAA, that's what I should have said there, okay? ​So don't worry about that. ​Just know that they are all numbers. ​And in the early days, life was simple. ​We would store every character in a byte of memory, ​otherwise known as eight bits of memory. ​It's the same thing when you say I have a many gigabyte USB stick, that's ​a 16 gigabyte USB stick, that means there are 16 billion bytes of memory on there. ​Which means we could put 16 million characters on here in the old days, okay? 
​So the problem is in the old days we just had so ​few characters that we could put one character in a byte. ​And so the ord function tells us the numeric value of a simple ASCII character. ​And so like I said, if you take a look at this ​the e is 101 and the H, capital H is 72. ​And then the newline which is here at the line feed which is 10. ​Now we could represent these in hexadecimal which is base 16 or ​octal which is base 8. ​Or actual binary which is what's really going on which is nothing but 0's and 1's. ​But this is the binary for 10. ​0001010, and so these three are just alternate versions of these numbers. 
​The numbers go up to 127, if you look at the binary, you can see in this, ​this is actually seven bits of binary. ​You could see that's all 1's, so it starts at all 0's goes to all 1's. ​And so it's like 0's and 1's are what the computers always do. ​And if you go all the way back to the hardware the little wires and ​stuff, the wires are character are taking 0's and 1's. ​So this is what we did and in the 60s and ​70s we just said whatever we're capable of squeezing in we're just totally happy. ​We're not going to have anything tricky and like I said ​halfway early in my undergraduate career I started to see lowercase letters. ​I'm like that's really beautiful, lowercase letters. 
​Now, the real world is nothing like this. ​There are all kinds of characters. ​And they had to come up with a scheme by which we could map these characters. ​And for a while there were a whole bunch of incompatible ways to represent ​characters other than these ASCII, also known as Latin character sets. ​Also known as Arabic character sets. ​These other character sets just completely invented their own way of representing. ​And so you had these situations where Japanese computers pretty much couldn't ​talk to American computers or European computers at all. 
​I mean, the Japanese computers just had their own way of representing characters. ​And the American computers had their own way of representing characters and ​they just couldn't talk. ​But they invented this thing called Unicode. ​And so Unicode is this universal code for hundreds of ​millions of different characters and hundreds of different character sets. ​So that instead of saying sorry, ​you don't fit with your language from some South Sea island, ​it's okay. We've got space in Unicode for that. ​And so Unicode has lots and lots of characters, not 128. 
​Lots and lots of characters. ​And so there was a time, like I said in the 70s and ​the 80s where everyone had something different. ​And even like in the early 2000s, what happened was that as the Internet ​came out it became an important issue to have a way to exchange data. ​And so we kind of had to say oh, well, it's not sufficient for ​Japanese computers to talk to Japanese computers ​and American computers to talk to American computers, we want Japanese and ​American computers to exchange data. ​So they built these character sets, and so there is Unicode, ​which is sort of this abstraction of all the different possible characters. ​And there are different ways of representing them inside of computers. ​And so there's a couple of simple things that you might think are good ideas that ​turn out to be not such good ideas, although they're used. 
​So the first thing we did is these UTF-16, UTF-32 and ​UTF-8 are basically ways of representing a larger set of characters. ​Now the gigantic one is 32 bits, which is 4 bytes. ​It's 4 times as much data for a single character. ​And so that's quite a lot of data, so ​you're dividing the number of characters by four. ​So if this is 16 GB, it can only handle 4 billion characters, or something. ​Divided by four, right, four bytes per character. ​And so that's not so efficient. 
​And then, there's a compromise like I have two bytes, ​but then you'd have to pick. ​This can do all the characters. ​This can do sort of lots of character sets. ​But turns out that even though you might instinctively think that UTF-32 ​is better than UTF-16 and UTF-8 is the worst? ​It turns out that UTF-8 is the best. ​So UTF-8 basically says, it's either going to be one, two, three or ​four characters and there's little marks that tell it when to go from one to four. ​The nice thing about it is that UTF overlaps with ASCII, right? 
​And so if the only characters you're putting in are the original ASCII or ​Latin I character set, then UTF-8 and ASCII are literally the same thing. ​And then use a special character that's not part of ASCII to indicate flipping ​from one-byte characters to two-byte characters or ​three-byte characters or four-byte. ​So it's a variable length. ​And so you can automatically detect, you can just be reading through a string and ​say, whoa I just saw this weird marker character. ​I must be in UTF-8. ​And then if I'm in UTF-8 then I can sort of expand this and find, ​represent all those character sets and all those characters in those character sets. ​And so what happened was is they went through all these things and ​as you can see from this graph, the graph doesn't really say much other than ​the fact that UTF-8 is awesome and getting awesomer. 
​And every other way of representing data is becoming less awesome, right? ​And this is 2012, so that's a long time ago. ​So this was like, UTF-8 rocks, and ​that's really because, as soon as these ideas came out, it was really clear ​that UTF-8 is the best practice for encoding data moving between systems. ​And that's why we're talking about this right now. ​Finally, with this network we're doing sockets we're moving data between systems. ​So your American computer might be talking to a computer in Japan and ​you've got to know what character set's coming out, right? ​And you might be getting Japanese characters even though everything I've ​shown you is non-Japanese characters or Asian characters or whatever, right? 
​So UTF-8 turns out to be the best practice ​if you're moving a file between two systems. ​Or if you're moving network data between two systems we recommend, ​the world recommends UTF-8, okay? ​So if you think about your computer, inside your computer, ​the strings that are inside, your Python like x equals hello world, ​we don't really care what their syntax is. ​And if there's a file usually the Python running on the computer and ​the file had the same character set. They might be UTF-8 inside Python. ​It might be UTF-8 inside, but we don't care. ​You open a file, and ​that's why we didn't have to talk about this when we were opening files. 
​Even though you might some day encounter a file that's different than ​your normal character set, it's rare, okay? ​So files are inside the computer. ​Strings are inside the computer. ​But network connections are not inside the computer and when we get to databases ​we're going to see they're not inside of the computer either. ​And so this is also something that's changed from Python 2 to Python 3. ​It was actually a big deal, a big thing. ​And most people think it's great, I actually think it's great. 
​Some people are grumpy about it, ​but I think those people just are people that fear change. ​So, there were two kinds of strings in Python, ​there were a normal old string and a Unicode string. ​And so you could see that Python 2 would be able to make a string constant, and ​that's type string, and it would it make a Unicode by prefixing u before the quote. ​And that's a separate kind of thing, and then you had to convert back and ​forth, between Unicode and strings. ​What we've done in Python 3 is this is a regular string and ​this is Unicode string, but you'll notice they're both strings. ​So it means that inside of the world of Python, if we're pulling stuff in, ​you might have to convert it. ​But inside Python everything is Unicode. 
​You don't have to worry about it, ​every string is kind of the same whether it has Asian characters or ​Latin characters or Spanish characters or French characters, it's just fine. ​So this simplifies this, ​but then there's certain things that we're going to have to be responsible for. ​So the one kind of string that we sort of haven't used yet ​but becomes important. and it's present in both Python 2 and Python 3. ​Remember how I said in the old days a character and a byte were the same thing? ​And so there's always been a thing like a byte string and ​they do this by prefixing the b. ​And that says, this is a string of bytes that mean this character. And ​if you look at the byte string in Python 2, ​and then you look at a regular string in Python 2, they're both type string. 
​The bytes are the same as string, and the Unicode is different. ​So these two are the same in Python 2, and these two are different in Python 2. ​Not doing a very good picture of that. ​So the byte string and the regular string are the same. ​And the regular string and the Unicode string are different. ​So what happened is in Python 3 the regular string and ​the Unicode string are the same. ​And now the byte string and the regular string are different, okay? 
​So bytes turns out to be raw, ​unencoded, that might be UTF-8, might be UTF-16, it might be ASCII. ​We don't know what it is, we don't know what its encoding is. ​So it turns out that this is the thing we have to manage when we're dealing with ​data from the outside. ​So in Python 3 all the strings internally are Unicode. ​Not UTF-8, not UTF-16, not UTF-32, ​and if you just open a file, it pretty much usually works. ​If you talk to a network now, we have to understand. ​Now the key thing is we have to decode this stuff. 
​We have to realize what is the character set of the stuff we're pulling in. ​Now the beauty is, is because 99% or maybe 100% of the stuff you're ​going to run across just uses UTF-8, it turns out to be relatively simple. ​So, there's this little decode operation, so if you look at this code right here. ​When we talk to an external resource we get a byte array back like the socket ​gives us an array of bytes which are characters. ​But they need to be decoded so we know, if it could be UTF-8, UTF-16 or ASCII. ​So there is this function that's part of byte arrays, so ​data.decode says figure this thing out. ​And the nice thing is, is you can tell it what character set it is but ​by default it assumes UTF-8 or ASCII dynamically. 
​Because ASCII and UTF-8 are upwards compatible with one another. ​So if it's like old data, you're probably getting ASCII, if it's newer data, ​you're probably getting UTF-8. ​And literally, it's a law of diminishing returns, ​it's very rare that you get anything other than those two, ​so you almost never have to tell it what it is, right? ​So you just say decode it, look at it. ​It might be ASCII, might be a UTF-8, but ​whatever it is by the time it's done with that it's a string. ​It's all Unicode inside of this. And so this is bytes. 
​And this is Unicode. ​So decode goes from bytes to Unicode. ​And you also can see, when we're looking at the sending of the data, ​we're going to turn it into bytes. ​So encode takes this string and makes it into bytes. ​So this is going to be bytes that are properly encoded in UTF-8. ​Again, you could have put a thing here, UTF-8, but it just assumes UTF-8. ​And this is all ASCII, so it actually doesn't do anything so, but that's okay. 
​And then we're sending the bytes out the command. ​So we have to send the stuff out, then we receive it, we decode it, ​when we send it we encode it. ​Out in this real world is where the UTF-8 is. ​Here we just have Unicode. ​And so, before we do the send and before we receive, we have to encode and ​decode this stuff so that it works out and it works out correctly. ​And so you can look at the documentation for both the encode and the decode. ​Decode is a method in the bytes class. 
​And it says, you can see that the encoding we're telling it, ​you can say it's not UTF-8, ASCII and UTF-8 are the same thing. ​The default is UTF-8, which is probably all you're ever going to use, ​and the same thing is true, strings can be encoded using UTF-8 into a byte array and ​then we send that byte array out to the outside world. ​And it sounds more complex than it is. ​So after all that, think of it this way. ​On the way out, we have a internal string. ​Before we send it, we have to encode it, and then we send it. ​Getting stuff back, we receive it, it comes back as bytes. 
​We happen to know it's UTF-8 or we're letting it automatically detect UTF-8 and ​decode it and now we have a string. ​And now internally inside of Python we can write files, ​we can do all kinds of stuff in and out of stuff and it sort of works all together. ​It's just that this is UTF-8 ?? ​This is the outside world. ​And so you kind of have to look at your program and ​say okay, when am I talking to the outside world? ​Well in this case, it's when I'm talking to a socket, right? ​I'm talking to a socket, so I have to know enough to encode and ​decode as I go in and out of the socket. 
​So it looks kind of weird when you all of a sudden start seeing these ​encodes and decodes. ​But they actually make sense. ​There's sort of like this barrier between this outside world and our inside world. ​So that inside our data is all completely consistent and we can mix strings ​from various sources without regard to the character set of those strings. ​So now what we're going to do is we're going to rewrite that program. ​It's a short program, but we're going to make it even shorter. 